Prospectus dated 15 April 2020 

(incorporated as a private limited liability company with its corporate seat in Amsterdam, The Netherlands) 

JAB Holdings B.V.  

 

EUR 500,000,000 2.500 per cent. Notes due 2027 
ISIN: DE000A28V301, Common Code: 215859282, WKN: A28V30 

Issue Price 99.267 per cent. 

and 

EUR 500,000,000 3.375 per cent. Notes due 2035 
ISIN: DE000A28V319, Common Code: 215858243, WKN: A28V31 

Issue Price 99.007 per cent.  

each series of Notes unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by 

JAB Holding Company S.à r.l. 

(incorporated as a société à responsabilité limitée with its corporate seat in Luxembourg) 

JAB  Holdings  B.V.,  Piet  Heinkade  55,  1019  GM  Amsterdam,  The  Netherlands  (the  "Issuer")  will  issue  two  series  of  notes: 

(a) EUR 500,000,000 2.500 per cent. Notes due 2027 (the "Notes 2027") and (b) EUR 500,000,000 3.375 per cent. Notes due 2035 

(the "Notes 2035", together with the Notes 2027, the "Notes"), each in the denomination of EUR 100,000 each on 17 April 2020 

(the "Issue Date").  

The  Notes  have  the  benefit  of  an  unconditional  and  irrevocable  guarantee  (the  "Guarantee")  of  JAB  Holding  Company  S.à r.l. 

(the "Guarantor"). The Notes and the Guarantee will be governed by the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany ("Germany"). 

The Issuer and the Guarantor are part of a group of holding companies (the "JAB-Group") which invest in a portfolio of operating 

companies  as  further  described  under  "Description  of  the  Issuer",  "Description  of  the  Guarantor"  and  "Description  of  the  JAB-

Group". 

The Notes 2027 will bear interest on their outstanding amount from and including 17 April 2020 to but excluding 17 April 2027 at 

a rate of 2.500 per cent. per annum, payable annually in arrear on 17 April of each year, commencing on 17 April 2021. The Notes 

2027 will be redeemed at their specified denomination on 17 April 2027.  

The Notes 2035 will bear interest on their outstanding amount from and including 17 April 2020 to but excluding 17 April 2035 at 

a rate of 3.375 per cent. per annum, payable annually in arrear on 17 April of each year, commencing on 17 April 2021. The Notes 

2035 will be redeemed at their specified denomination on 17 April 2035.  

Under certain circumstances described in Condition 4 of the terms and conditions of the Notes (the "Terms and Conditions"), the 

Notes may be subject to early redemption. 

This  prospectus  (the  "Prospectus")  constitutes  a  prospectus  for  the  purpose  of  the  Luxembourg  Law  of  16  July  2019  on 

Prospectuses for Securities. Application has been made for admission of the Notes to the official list (the "Official List") of the 

Luxembourg  Stock  Exchange  and  for  trading  on  the  Euro  MTF  market  ("Euro  MTF")  operated  by  the  Luxembourg  Stock 

Exchange,  which  is  a  multilateral  trading  facility  for  the  purposes  of  the  Market  and  the  Financial  Instruments  Directive 

2014/65/EU (as amended, "MiFID II"), and therefore a non-EU-regulated market.  

Each series of Notes will initially be represented by a temporary global note in bearer form (each a "Temporary Global Note"). 

Interests in the Temporary Global Note will be exchangeable, in whole or in part, for interest in a  permanent global note (each a 

"Permanent  Global  Note" and, together  with the  Temporary  Global  Notes,  each  a  "Global  Note")  on  or after the date 40 days 

after the later of the commencement of the offering and the Issue Date (the "Exchange Date"), upon certification as to non-U.S. 

beneficial  ownership.  The  Global  Notes  will  be  deposited  prior  to  the  Issue  Date  with  Clearstream  Banking  Aktiengesellschaft, 
Eschborn ("Clearstream Frankfurt").  

BNP PARIBAS 

BofA Securities 

Citigroup 

Joint Lead Managers 

Deutsche Bank 

MUFG 

Santander Corporate & 

Investment Banking 

Co-Lead Managers 

CIC Market Solutions 

Rabobank 

ING 

SEB 

 

This Prospectus is to be read in conjunction with all documents which are incorporated herein by  reference 

(see "Documents Incorporated by Reference" below). 

No  person  has  been  authorised  to  give  any  information  or  to  make  any  representation  other  than  those 

contained  in  this  Prospectus  in  connection  with  the  issue  or  sale  of  the  Notes  and,  if  given  or  made,  such 

information or representation must not be relied upon as having been authorised by the Issuer, the Guarantor 

or any Manager (as defined below). Neither the delivery of this Prospectus nor any sale made in connection 

herewith shall, under any circumstances, create any implication that there has been no change in the affairs 

of  the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  since  the  date  hereof  or  the  date  upon  which  this  Prospectus  has  been  most 

recently supplemented or that there has been no adverse change in the financial position of the Issuer or the 

Guarantor since the date hereof or the date upon which this Prospectus has been most recently supplemented 

or that any other information supplied in connection with the Notes is correct as of any time subsequent to 

the date on which it is supplied or, if different, the date indicated in the document containing the same. 

The  distribution  of  this  Prospectus  and  the  offering  or  sale  of  the  Notes  and  the  Guarantee  in  certain 

jurisdictions may be restricted by law. Persons into whose possession this Prospectus comes are required by 

the  Issuer,  the  Guarantor  and  by  each  of  Banco  Santander,  S.A.,  BNP  Paribas,  Citigroup  Global  Markets 

Limited,  Deutsche  Bank  Aktiengesellschaft,  Merrill  Lynch  International  and  MUFG  Securities  (Europe) 

N.V.  (together,  the  "Joint  Lead  Managers")  and  Coöperatieve  Rabobank  U.A.,  Crédit  Industriel  et 

Commercial S.A., ING Bank N.V., Belgian Branch and Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) (together, 

the  "Co-Lead  Managers",  and  together  with  the  Joint  Lead  Managers,  the  "Managers")  to  inform 

themselves about and to observe any such restriction. The Notes and the Guarantee have not been and will 

not  be  registered  under  the  U.S.  Securities  Act  of  1933,  as  amended  (the  "Securities  Act")  or  with  any 

securities regulatory authority of any state or other jurisdiction of the United States. The Notes will be issued 

in bearer form and are subject to certain U.S. tax law requirements. Subject to certain exceptions, the Notes 

and  the  Guarantee  may  not  be  offered,  sold  or  delivered  within  the  United  States  or  to  U.S.  persons  (as 

defined  in  Regulation  S  under  the  Securities  Act  ("Regulation  S")  and  as  defined  in  the  U.S.  Internal 

Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and regulations thereunder). For a description of certain restrictions on 

offers and sales of the Notes and on distribution of this Prospectus, see "Subscription and Sale". 

This Prospectus does not constitute an offer of, or an invitation by or on behalf of the Issuer or any Manager 

to subscribe for, or purchase, any Notes. 

The Managers  have not  separately  verified the information contained in this Prospectus. The  Managers do 

not make any representation, expressly or implied, or accept any responsibility, with respect to the accuracy 

or  completeness  of  any  information  contained  in  this  Prospectus.  Neither  this  Prospectus  nor  any  other 

financial  statements  are  intended  to  provide  the  basis  of  any  credit  or  other  evaluation  and  should  not  be 

considered as a recommendation by any of the Issuer, the  Guarantor or the  Managers that any recipient of 

this  Prospectus  or  any  other  financial  statements  should  purchase  the  Notes.  Each  potential  purchaser  of 

Notes  should  determine  for  itself  the  relevance  of  the  information  contained  in  this  Prospectus  and  its 

purchase  of  Notes  should  be  based  upon  such  investigation  as  it  deems  necessary.  The  Managers  do  not 

undertake to review the  financial condition or affairs of the Issuer and the Guarantor during the life of the 

arrangements contemplated by this Prospectus nor to advise any investor or potential investor in the Notes of 

any information coming to the attention of  any of the Managers. This Prospectus may only be used for the 

purpose for which it has been published. 

Prospective investors should have regard to the factors described under the section headed "Risk Factors" in 

this  Prospectus.  This  Prospectus  identifies  in  general  terms  certain  information  that  a  prospective  investor 

should consider prior to making an investment in the Notes. However, a prospective investor should conduct 

its own thorough analysis (including its own accounting, legal and tax analysis) prior to deciding whether to 

invest in any Notes as any evaluation of the suitability for an investor of an investment in the Notes depends 

upon a prospective investor's particular financial and other circumstances, as well as on the specific terms of 

2 

the  Notes  and,  if  it  does  not  have  experience  in  financial,  business  and  investment  matters  sufficient  to 

permit it to make such a determination, it should consult its financial adviser prior to deciding to  make an 

investment on the suitability of the Notes. 

MIFID  II  product  governance  /  Professional  investors  and  ECPs  only  target  market  –  Solely  for  the 

purposes  of  each  manufacturer's  product  approval  process,  the  target  market  assessment  in  respect  of  the 

Notes  has  led  to  the  conclusion  that:  (i)  the  target  market  for  the  Notes  is  eligible  counterparties  and 

professional  clients  only,  each  as  defined  in  Directive 2014/65/EU  (as  amended,  "MiFID  II");  and  (ii)  all 

channels for distribution of the Notes to eligible counterparties and professional clients are appropriate. Any 

person  subsequently  offering,  selling  or  recommending  the  Notes  (a  "distributor")  should  take  into 

consideration  the  manufacturers'  target  market  assessment;  however,  a  distributor  subject  to  MiFID  II  is 

responsible for undertaking its own target market assessment in respect of the Notes (by either adopting or 

refining the manufacturers' target market assessment) and determining appropriate distribution channels.  

IN  CONNECTION  WITH  THE  ISSUE  OF  THE  NOTES,  BNP  PARIBAS  (THE  "STABILISING 

MANAGER")  (OR  A  PERSON  ACTING  ON  BEHALF  OF  ANY  STABILISING  MANAGER)  MAY 

OVER-ALLOT  NOTES  OR  EFFECT  TRANSACTIONS  WITH  A  VIEW  TO  SUPPORTING  THE 

MARKET PRICE OF THE NOTES AT A LEVEL HIGHER THAN THAT WHICH MIGHT  OTHERWISE 

PREVAIL.  HOWEVER,  STABILISATION  MAY  NOT  NECESSARILY  OCCUR. ANY  STABILISATION 

ACTION  MAY  BEGIN  ON  OR AFTER  THE  DATE  ON  WHICH ADEQUATE  PUBLIC  DISCLOSURE 

OF THE TERMS OF THE OFFER OF THE NOTES IS MADE AND, IF BEGUN, MAY CEASE AT ANY 

TIME, BUT IT MUST END NO LATER THAN THE EARLIER OF 30 CALENDAR DAYS AFTER THE 

ISSUE DATE OF THE NOTES AND 60 CALENDAR DAYS AFTER THE DATE OF THE ALLOTMENT 

OF THE NOTES. ANY STABILISATION ACTION OR OVER-ALLOTMENT MUST BE CONDUCTED 

BY  THE  RELEVANT  STABILISING  MANAGER  (OR  A  PERSON  ACTING  ON  BEHALF  OF  ANY 

STABILISING MANAGER) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ALL APPLICABLE LAWS AND RULES. 

In this Prospectus, unless otherwise specified or the context otherwise requires, references to "EUR", "euro" 

and  "€"  are  to  the  currency  introduced  at  the  third  stage  of  the  European  economic  and  monetary  union 

pursuant to the Treaty establishing the European Community as amended by the Treaty on European Union. 

References to "GBP" and "British pound sterling" are to the currency of the United Kingdom and references 

to "US$", "USD" and "U.S. dollars" are to the currency of the United States of America.  

Certain  numerical  figures  and  percentages  set  out  in  this  Prospectus,  including  financial  data  presented  in 

billions or millions, have been subject to rounding adjustments and, as a result, the totals of the data in this 

Prospectus may vary slightly from the actual arithmetic totals of such information. 

Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements 

This  Prospectus  contains  certain  forward-looking  statements,  including  statements  using  the  words 

"believes", "anticipates", "intends", "expects" or other similar terms. This applies in particular to statements 

under  the  caption  "General  Information"  and  statements  elsewhere  in  this  Prospectus  relating  to,  among 

other  things,  the  future  financial  performance,  plans  and  expectations  regarding  developments  in  the 

business  of  the  JAB-Group.  These  forward-looking  statements  are  subject  to  a  number  of  risks, 

uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that may cause the actual results, including the financial position 

and profitability of the JAB-Group, to be materially different from or worse than those expressed or implied 

by these forward-looking statements. The Issuer and the Guarantor do not assume any obligation to update 

such forward-looking statements and to adapt them to future events or developments. 

3 

Alternative Performance Measures 

The  Issuer  and  the  Guarantor  believe  that  there  are  alternative  performance  measures  (together,  the 

"Alternative Performance Measures") which are useful in evaluating JAB-Group’s operating performance, 

the net value of JAB-Group’s portfolio and the level of JAB-Group’s indebtedness. However, the Alternative 

Performance  Measures  are  not  recognized  as  measures  under  IFRS  and  should  not  be  considered  as 

substitutes  for  figures  on  result  before  taxes,  net  earnings,  cash  flow  from/used  in  operating  activities  or 

other  income  statement  or  cash  flow  data,  as  determined  in  accordance  with  IFRS,  or  as  measures  of 

profitability  or  liquidity.  The Alternative  Performance  Measures  do  not  necessarily  indicate  whether  cash 

flow  will  be  sufficient  or  available  for  JAB-Group’s  cash  requirements,  nor  whether  any  such  measure  is 

indicative of JAB Group’s historical operating results. The Alternative Performance Measures are not meant 

to be indicative of future results. Because not all companies calculate these measures and figures in the same 

way, JAB-Group’s presentation of the Alternative Performance Measures is not necessarily comparable with 

similarly titled measures used by other companies.  

 

4 

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

 

Page 

RISK FACTORS .............................................................................................................................................. 6 

RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT ................................................................................................................. 19 

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE NOTES 2027 ................................................................................... 20 

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE NOTES 2035 ................................................................................... 47 

THE GUARANTEE FOR THE NOTES 2027 ............................................................................................... 74 

THE GUARANTEE FOR THE NOTES 2035 ............................................................................................... 78 

USE OF PROCEEDS ..................................................................................................................................... 82 

DESCRIPTION OF THE ISSUER ................................................................................................................. 83 

DESCRIPTION OF THE GUARANTOR...................................................................................................... 97 

DESCRIPTION OF THE JAB-GROUP ....................................................................................................... 102 

TAXATION WARNING ............................................................................................................................... 107 

SUBSCRIPTION AND SALE ..................................................................................................................... 108 

GENERAL INFORMATION ....................................................................................................................... 110 

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE ................................................................................ 112 

5 

RISK FACTORS 

Each  of  the  Issuer  and  the  Guarantor  believes  that  the  following  factors  may  affect  its  ability  to  fulfil  its 

obligations under the Notes or the Guarantee, respectively. All of these factors are contingencies which may 

or  may  not  occur  and  each  of  the  Issuer  and  the  Guarantor  is  not  in  a  position  to  express  a  view  on  the 

likelihood of any such contingency occurring. 

Factors which the Issuer or the Guarantor believes may be material for the purpose of assessing the market 

risks associated with the Notes or the Guarantee are also described below. 

Each of the Issuer and the Guarantor believes that the factors described below represent the principal risks 

inherent  in  investing  in  the  Notes  as  guaranteed  by  the  Guarantee.  However,  either  the  Issuer  or  the 

Guarantor may be unable to pay interest, principal or other amounts on or in connection with the Notes or 

the Guarantee, respectively, for other reasons and neither the Issuer nor the Guarantor represents that the 

statements below regarding the risks of holding any Notes as guaranteed by the Guarantee are exhaustive. 

Prospective  investors  should  also  read  the  detailed  information  set  out  elsewhere  in  this  Prospectus 

(including any documents deemed to be incorporated by reference herein) and reach their own views prior 

to making any investment decision. Prospective investors should note that the risks relating to the Issuer and 

the  Guarantor,  their  respective  industries  and  the  Notes  summarised  in  this  section  are  the  risks  that  the 

Issuer  and  the  Guarantor  believe  to  be  the  most  essential  to  an  assessment  by  a  prospective  investor  of 

whether  to  consider  an  investment  in  the  Notes.  However,  as  these  risks  relate  to  events  and  depend  on 

circumstances  that  may  or  may  not occur  in  the  future,  prospective  investors  should  consider  not  only  the 

information on the key risks summarised in this section, but also, among other things, should consult their 

financial, legal and tax advisers. 

Risk Factors that may affect the Issuer/Guarantor's ability to fulfil its obligations under 

the Notes or the Guarantee, respectively  

The  Issuer,  the  Guarantor  and  the  JAB-Group  are  exposed  to  certain  risk  factors  affecting  their  respective 

abilities to fulfil their obligations under the Notes or the Guarantee, as the case  may be. These risk factors 

relate  to  the  business  and  operations  of  the  Issuer,  the  Guarantor  and  the  JAB-Group  and  include  matters 

such as a decrease in the value of the JAB-Group's investments, a limited ability to raise capital and a failure 

to integrate newly acquired businesses. The following is a summary of these risk factors: 

Market risks 

Exposure to prices of investment assets  

The  Guarantor,  as  holding  company,  holds  100%  of  the  Issuer  via  an  intermediate  holding  company,  JAB 

Investments  S.à  r.l.  The  Issuer  is  an  investment  company.  The  composition  of  the  Issuer's  investment 

portfolio  may  vary  substantially  from  time  to  time  (see  the  structure  chart  of  the  JAB-Group  and  its 

investments  in  the  section  "Description  of  the  Issuer").  The  market  value  of  the  portfolio  directly  and 

indirectly  held  by  the  Issuer  and  the  Guarantor,  respectively,  is  subject  to  the  market  prices  of  the  assets 

comprising the portfolio. A decrease of such market prices may lead to a significantly lower market value of 

the portfolio, which may affect the creditworthiness of the Issuer, the Guarantor and/or the JAB-Group. 

The  Issuer  holds,  directly  and  indirectly,  equity  interests  in  listed  and  unlisted  companies.  The  value  of 

investments  in  listed  companies  is  based  on  the  market  prices  of  the  listed  companies.  The  value  of 

investments in unlisted companies is determined by employing various methods, including valuations based 

on  multiples  for  comparable  listed  entities.  Accordingly,  changing  market  prices  and  conditions  may 

adversely affect the value of the Issuer's assets. A sustained fall in equity and/or bond markets or changes in 

interest or exchange rates may reduce the Issuer's earnings significantly and for  an extended period of time. 

The Issuer's expenses, e.g. interest expenses, may not decrease at the same rate as investment markets could 

6 

fall  and  if  the  Issuer  is  not  able  to  manage  its  expenses  effectively,  the  Issuer  could  experience  significant 

and sustained losses as a consequence. 

Commercial risks 

Maintaining  long-term  ownership  in  holdings  and  a  flow  of  investments  in,  and  divestments  from,  new 

investment  activities  involves  commercial  risks,  such  as  high  exposure  to  certain  industries  or  individual 

holdings,  changing  market  conditions  limiting  attractive  investment  opportunities  and  barriers  to  exit  from 

certain holdings at the chosen time. 

Dependency on investment revenues 

The  Issuer  is  an  investment  company  without  any  significant  operating  business  and  the  Issuer's  financial 

condition therefore depends on the performance of its investment activities. The Issuer depends primarily on 

the receipt of funds, distributions and dividends from its investments. The ability of the companies in which 

the  Issuer  is  invested  to  make  such  payments  depends  on  the  companies'  economic  performance  and 

financial condition. No assurance can be given that the Issuer will receive adequate funding to maintain its 

financial condition. These factors could materially and adversely affect the Issuer's ability to make payments 

on the Notes.  

The  same  is  true  in  respect  of  the  Guarantor  which  depends  solely  on  the  economic  performance  and 

financial condition of the Issuer as its sole material investment. 

Cyclical business at the level of the operating companies 

The  complex  global  economic  situation  affects  the  earnings  of  the  investment  holdings  of  the  Issuer.  In 

general,  the  sectors  in  which  the  investment  holdings  operate  have  historically  been  subject  to  highly 

cyclical demand and tend to reflect the overall performance of the economy, in certain cases even amplifying 

the  effects  of  economic  trends.  Given  the  difficulty  of  predicting  the  magnitude  and  duration  of  economic 

cycles, there can be no assurances as to future trends in the demand for, or supply of, products and services 

sold  by  them  in  any  of  the  markets  in  which  they  operate.  Moreover,  the  markets  in  which  the  Issuer's 

investment  holdings  operate  are  exposed  to  variations  in  energy  and  raw  material  prices  or  a  possible 

reduction in infrastructure investments. Accordingly, particular circumstances could have a material adverse 

effect on the earnings, business prospects and financial position of the Issuer's investment holdings. 

Local market conditions  

The  Issuer's  and  the  Guarantor's  earnings  and  financial  positions  and  those  of  their  respective  investment 

holdings  are  particularly  influenced  by  the  general  state  of  the  economy  in  the  countries  in  which  they 

operate  and  by  the  variables  which  affect  performance,  including  increases  or  decreases  in  gross  national 

product, access to credit, the level of consumer and business confidence, the cost of raw materials and the 

rate of unemployment. 

Strong competition  

The Issuer operates via its investment holdings in businesses which are intensely competitive. The Issuer and 

its  holding  companies  compete  on  the  basis  of  a  number  of  factors,  including  brand  recognition,  fund 

performance,  transaction  execution,  products  and  services,  innovation,  reputation  and  price.  Many  of  their 

competitors  have  significant  financial  resources,  experience  and  marketing  strength,  and  may  have  the 

ability to offer a wide range of products and services and to introduce innovative products or services, which 

may enhance their competitive position.  

SARS-CoV-2 pandemic 

Pandemics, epidemics, outbreaks of infectious diseases or any other serious public health concerns, such as 

the  outbreak  of  SARS-CoV-2  first  identified  in  December  2019  and  its  associated  disease  ("Covid-19"), 

together  with  any  measures  aimed  at  mitigating  a  further  expansion  thereof,  such  as  restrictions  on  travel, 

7 

imposition of quarantines, prolonged closures of workplaces, or curfews or other social distancing measures, 

may have a material adverse effect on the global economy and international financial markets in general and 

on the markets in which the JAB-Group operates in particular. The implications of such outbreaks depend on 

a  number  of  factors,  such  as  the  duration  and  spread  of  the  respective  outbreak  as  well  as  the  timing, 

suitability  and  effectiveness  of  measures  imposed  by  authorities,  the  availability  of  resources,  including 

human,  material,  infrastructure  and  financial  (e.g.,  governmental  stimulus  packages  and/or  measures 

introduced  by  central  banks)  required  to  implement  effective  responses  to  the  respective  situation  at  the 

international, national and regional level as well as the level of civil compliance with such measures. There 

is  no  guarantee  that  such  measures,  or  a  combination  thereof,  are  effective  means  to  combat  such  an 

outbreak and the implications resulting therefrom. 

A number of factors that are important for the JAB-Group and its investments to successfully conduct their 

respective businesses could be materially affected by the spread of Covid-19. The social distancing measures 

implemented by countries around the  world to slow the spread of Covid-19 could result in a severe global 

recession  and  financial  crisis.  As  economic  activity  is  drastically  reduced  for  several  months,  many 

businesses  could  be  forced  to  close,  leading  to  a  dramatic  increase  in  unemployment.  As  businesses  and 

unemployed workers no longer have the income to pay their outstanding debts, the number of defaults could 

significantly increase.  

While the majority of the investment portfolio of JAB-Group are focused on business sectors the JAB-Group 

considers  to  be  resilient  and  non-discretionary,  certain  other  investments,  primarily  in  the  retail  restaurant, 

cosmetic  and  luxury  sectors,  are  negatively  affected.  For  example,  in  response  to  the  global  outbreak  and 

pursuant to the exercise of emergency executive authority invoked by country, state and local governments, 

the  restaurant  and  coffeehouse  industry  (which  includes  shops  and  restaurants  operated  by  investments  of 

JAB-Group such as Pret A Manger (Europe) Limited and Panera Holdings Corp) has been mandated to close 

or limit service at substantially all the restaurants and coffeehouses across the globe in order to combat the 

spread of SARS-CoV-2. The significance of the impact of  the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak on the JAB-Group's 

investments cannot be conclusively assessed at the date of this Prospectus. However, a prolonged period of 

substantially  reduced  sales  due  to  the  pandemic  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  their  respective 

businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

The Covid-19 pandemic and the  measures implemented to combat the outbreak could  materially  adversely 

affect  the  earnings,  business  prospects  and  financial  position  of  the  Issuer's,  the  Guarantor's  and  the  JAB-

Group's investments and ultimately of the Issuer, the Guarantor and the JAB-Group. 

Sector risks 

The Issuer operates in consumer goods markets via its respective investments and intends to continue to do 

so  in  the  future.  Although  these  markets  are  generally  stable  and  usually  have  moderate  volatility  or 

sensitivity,  prospective  investors  should  inform  themselves  about  the  different  consumer  goods  markets  in 

which the Issuer, the Guarantor and the JAB-Group operate via their respective investments. In addition, the 

Issuer  is  not  restricted  in  its  exercise  of  discretion  concerning  its  investment  decisions  and  it  cannot  be 

excluded that one or more investments in which the Issuer, the Guarantor or the JAB-Group participates will 

operate in other  markets. Therefore, it is possible that the Issuer  will  invest in other  markets  in the future. 

These  markets  could  be  more  volatile  or  sensitive,  which  could  adversely  affect  the  earnings,  business 

prospects  and  financial  position  of  the  Issuer's,  the  Guarantor's  and  the  JAB-Group's  investments  and 

ultimately of the Issuer, the Guarantor and the JAB-Group. 

Liquidity Risk 

The Issuer, the Guarantor and the JAB-Group mainly depend on the cash flow and returns derived from their 

respective investments in the form of dividends or other distributions. The Issuer or the Guarantor  may be 

required to sell its respective investments in part or in whole in order to be in a position to pay interest and 

8 

principal on the Notes. Investors should note that the proceeds of any such sale may need to be applied for 

mandatory prepayment of financial indebtedness other than the Notes. As a consequence, Noteholders may 

be structurally subordinated in such a scenario. Furthermore, any such sale of the Issuer's or the Guarantor's 

assets may be at a time where the sale proceeds from such sale are not sufficient to pay interest and principal 

on the Notes. It cannot be excluded that, at the time of redemption or maturity of the Notes, no dividend will 

be  paid  under  the  investments  of  the  Issuer  and  the  Guarantor,  no  sale  of  the  respective  investments  is 

possible, and no credit facility or other financing is available. If the Issuer and/or the Guarantor do not have 

sufficient liquid assets at the time of any payment, there is a significant risk that an investor in the Notes will 

lose all or some of its investment.  

Referendum in the United Kingdom on its membership in the European Union  

On  23 June  2016,  the  United  Kingdom  held  a  referendum  on  its  membership  in  the  European  Union.  A 
majority of the voters voted to exit the European Union ("Brexit"). On 29 March 2017, the government of 

the  United  Kingdom  has  given  official  notice  of  the  United  Kingdom's  intention  to  leave  the  European 

Union  and  started  the  formal  negotiation  process.  The  United  Kingdom  left  the  European  Union  on 

31 January 2020 with a transition period until 31 December 2020. 

Negotiations  commenced  to  determine  the  future  terms  of  the  United  Kingdom's  relationship  with  the 

European Union, including the terms of trade between the United Kingdom and the European Union and the 

United Kingdom's access to the European Union markets. The outcome of these negotiations as well as the 

time frame to implement the agreed arrangements is still very uncertain. 

There  are  significant  uncertainties  as  to  what  the  impact  will  be  on  the  fiscal,  monetary  and  regulatory 

landscape in the United Kingdom, the conduct of cross-border business and export and import tariffs. There 

is  uncertainty  in  relation  to  how,  when  and  to  what  extent  these  developments  will  have  an  impact  on  the 

economy in the United Kingdom and the European Union, and on levels of investor activity and confidence, 

on  global  market  performance  and  on  exchange  rates.  Conversely,  the  final  result  may  be  seen  as  an 

incentive for other European countries to follow the British example, in which case there might be spill-over 

effects to other countries. In addition, the Brexit and the ongoing negotiations between the United Kingdom 

and the European Union could exacerbate financial market volatility.  

Any of these developments, or the perception that any of these developments are likely to occur, could have 

a material adverse effect on economic growth or business activity in the United Kingdom, the Eurozone, or 

the  European  Union,  and  could  result  in  the  relocation  of  businesses,  cause  business  interruptions,  lead  to 

economic  recession  or  depression,  and  impact  the  stability  of  the  financial  markets,  availability  of  credit, 

political  systems  or  financial  institutions  and  the  financial  and  monetary  system.  Any  of  these  effects  of 

Brexit,  and  others  the  JAB-Group  cannot  anticipate  today,  could  have  material  adverse  effects  on  the 

business, net assets, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations of the JAB-Group. 

Financial counterparty risk 

The  Issuer  and  the  Guarantor  are  exposed  to  financial  institution  counterparty  risk  and  will  continue  to  be 

exposed  to  the  risk  of  loss  if  counterparty  financial  institutions  fail  or  are  otherwise  unable  to  meet  their 

obligations.  Financial  services  institutions  are  inter-related  as  a  result  of  trading,  counterparty  and  other 

relationships.  The  Issuer  and  the  Guarantor  have  exposure  to  many  different  industries  and  counterparties 

and  routinely  execute  transactions  with  counterparties  in  the  financial  industry,  financial  intermediaries, 

brokers and dealers, commercial banks and investment banks for their own account. Defaults by, or even the 

perceived  creditworthiness  or  questioning  of,  one  or  more  financial  services  institutions  or  the  financial 

services industry in general, have led and may again lead to market wide liquidity problems and could also 

lead  to  losses  or  defaults.  The  exact  nature  of  the  risks  faced  by  the  Issuer  and  Guarantor  is  difficult  to 

predict  and  guard  against  and  the  fact  that  many  of  the  related  risks  to  the  business  are  totally,  or  in  part, 

outside the control of the Issuer and the Guarantor. 

9 

Investment risks 

The  Issuer,  the  Guarantor  and  the  JAB-Group  have  made  their  investment  decisions  based  on  sound 

financial  grounds  in  accordance  with  their  investment  principles  and  have  kept  their  leverage  at  a  level  in 

line  with  the rating of the Notes and the rating of  the  Guarantor. There is no assurance,  however, that any 

current  or  future  investments,  if  made,  will  not  have  a  negative  adverse  impact  on  the  Issuer's,  the 

Guarantor's or the JAB-Group's financial condition in the short and/or medium term and on the rating of the 

Notes or the corporate credit rating of the Guarantor. 

The investment portfolio of the Issuer is continuously monitored and analysed by the Issuer through constant 

dialogue with the management or through direct participation through members in the management board or 

supervisory  board  of  the  companies  in  which  the  Issuer,  the  Guarantor  and  the  JAB-Group  are  invested. 

However,  the  Issuer,  the  Guarantor  and  the  JAB-Group  may  not  be  able  to  significantly  influence  the 

strategy of each of their investments at all times, e.g. as result of a minority participation of other investors 

or  the  Issuer,  the  Guarantor  and  the  JAB-Group  are  not  the  sole  investors  in  their  respective  ultimate 

investments  (see  structure  chart  in  the  section  "Description  of  the  Issuer").  Consequently,  other  investors 

may  block  any  strategic  decision  in  respect  of  the  ultimate  operating  companies  of  the  Issuer's,  the 

Guarantor's or the JAB-Group's investment. No assurance can be given in relation to the future performance 

of  the  Issuer's,  the  Guarantor's  or  the  JAB-Group's  investment  portfolio  nor  can  it  be  assured  that  the 

investment  portfolio  will  not  vary  substantially  from  time  to  time  or  that  the  Issuer,  the  Guarantor  or  the 

JAB-Group, given their nature as investment companies/group, will not dispose in whole or in part of any of 

their respective investments. 

No limitation on issuing further debt and guarantees or on investments 

There  is  no  restriction  on  the  amount  of  debt  or  guarantees  which  the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  may  issue 

ranking  equal  with,  or  senior  to,  the  obligations  under  or  in  connection  with  the  Notes.  Such  issuance  of 

further  debt  and  guarantees  may  reduce  the  amount  recoverable  by  the  Noteholders  upon  insolvency  or 

winding-up of the Issuer.  

Additionally, neither the Issuer nor the Guarantor is subject to a restriction on investments in other entities, 

which  could  ultimately  subordinate  the  Noteholders'  claims  to  obligations  of  such  entities  towards  their 

respective creditors. 

Strategic risks 

Failure to assess future market developments and/or overall negative economic development may adversely 

affect  the  businesses  of  the  Issuer,  the  Guarantor  and  the  JAB-Group.  Corporate  strategy  risks  can  arise 

above all from the erroneous assessment of future market developments. Regulatory controls and changes in 

public  policy  may  reduce  the  profitability  of  new  or  current  business  segments  in  which  the  Issuer  is 

invested.  Failure  to  evaluate  potential  acquisition  targets,  to  integrate  newly  acquired  businesses  or  to 

develop successfully new businesses may reduce the operating results of the Issuer. Significant unexpected 

costs for integration or development of businesses could also harm operating results. 

Concentration risks  

As of 31 December 2019, the direct and indirect principal investment holdings of the Issuer, the Guarantor 

and the JAB-Group in Acorn Holdings B.V. represented 58.4% of the gross asset value of the JAB-Group's 

assets.  Other  assets  (such  as  Pret  Panera  I  G.P.  and  Pret  Panera  III  G.P.,  Cottage  Holdco  B.V.,  KK  G.P, 

Petcare G.P. and JAB Luxury GmbH) represented 41.6% of the gross asset value of the JAB-Group's assets. 

While Acorn Holdings B.V., Pret Panera I G.P. and Pret Panera III G.P are themselves invested in a number 

of  different  companies  providing  for  diversification,  there  is  still  a  concentration  risk  within  the  portfolio 

whereby  a  loss  affecting  a  single  investment  may  have  a  significant  negative  impact  on  the  overall 

performance of the Issuer, the Guarantor and the JAB-Group.  

10 

The  results  reported  by  the  above-mentioned  principal  investment  holdings  will  continue  to  significantly 

influence  the  Issuer's  results  and  any  failure  to  achieve  the  objectives,  or  a  review  of  these  objectives  by 

those holdings as a consequence, inter alia, of the deterioration of the financial and economic condition and 

of  global  market  conditions,  may  have  a  prejudicial  effect  on  the  results  of  operations,  balance  sheet  and 

financial results, the activity, strategies and prospects of the Issuer, the Guarantor and the JAB-Group. 

Currency exchange risks 

Significant  fluctuations  in  exchange  rates  affect  the  financial  results  of  the  Issuer,  the  Guarantor  and  the 

JAB-Group.  A  significant  portion  of  the  JAB-Group's  investments  and  related  operations  are  outside  the 

Eurozone. Despite employing mechanisms to hedge against currency exchange risk, the JAB-Group cannot 

preclude  that  fluctuations  in  currencies  of  countries  outside  the  Eurozone,  especially  in  U.S.  dollar  and 

British pound sterling as of the date of this Prospectus, may materially affect the results of the JAB-Group, 

including the Issuer and the Guarantor.  

Group structure risks  

The obligations of the Issuer and the Guarantor incurred under the Notes or the Guarantee, respectively, are 

solely  obligations  of  the  Issuer  and  the  Guarantor. Any  other  JAB-Group  entity  or  company  in  which  the 

Issuer is invested does not have any obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due under the 

Notes  or  the  Guarantee  or  to  make  funds  available  to  the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  to  pay  any  amounts  due 

under the Notes or the Guarantee. Furthermore, any claim of the Issuer in respect of its investments will rank 

behind any claims in respect of indebtedness incurred, and guarantees issued, by the company in which the 

Issuer is invested and claims of preference shareholders in such companies (if any). Therefore, the Notes and 

the  Guarantee  will  effectively  be  subordinated  to  creditors  and  preference  shareholders  (if  any)  of  the 

Issuer's direct and indirect investments. 

Operational Risks 

Insurance coverage 

The  JAB-Group  seeks  to  cover  foreseeable  risks  through  insurance.  Such  insurance  coverage  comprises 

management and usual liability risks. However, these insurances may not fully cover the risks to which the 

JAB-Group is exposed. This may be the case for insurance covering legal and administrative claims as well 

as for insurance covering other risks. For certain risks, adequate insurance coverage may not be available on 

the  market or may  not be available  with reasonable conditions. Consequently, any  harm  resulting from the 

materialisation  of  these  risks  could  result  in  significant  capital  expenditures  and  expenses  as  well  as 

liabilities, thereby harming business and operating results. 

Key personnel risk 

Success  of  the  JAB-Group's  business  depends  on  the  expertise  and  the  dedication  of  the  employees  of  the 

JAB-Group.  The  JAB-Group  continuously  strives  to  recruit  qualified  staff  and  to  foster  company  loyalty. 

The risk of qualified employees leaving is particularly acute in key positions. 

IT-system failures  

The  JAB-Group  is,  to  some  degree,  dependent  on  IT-infrastructure  and  IT-systems. Any  interruptions  in, 

failures  of  or  damage  to  its  IT-infrastructure  and  IT-systems  could  lead  to  delays  or  interruptions  in  the 

business processes of the JAB-Group. In particular, the IT-systems of the JAB-Group may be vulnerable to 

security breaches and cyber-attacks from unauthorised persons outside and within the JAB-Group. The JAB-

Group  cannot  guarantee  that  anticipated  or  recognised  malfunctions  can  be  avoided  by  appropriate 

preventive  security  measures  in  every  case.  The  materialisation  of  one  or  more  of  these  risks  could  have 

material adverse effects on the business of the JAB-Group. 

11 

Issuer's and Guarantor's financial information 

The Issuer's and the Guarantor's historical consolidated financial and operational performances may not be 

indicative of their respective future operating and financial performances. There can be no assurance of the 

Issuer's or Guarantor's continued profitability for future periods. 

Estimates and assumptions in the financial information of the Issuer and the Guarantor 

The financial statements of the Issuer and Guarantor require the management to make judgements, estimates 

and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income 

and  expenses.  Key  assumptions  and  estimates  are  described  in  the  notes  to  the  financial  statements  of  the 

Issuer  and  the  Guarantor  incorporated  by  reference  into  this  Prospectus.  Management  uses  its  judgement 

especially for the classification of the Guarantor as an investment entity according to IFRS 10, for selecting 

appropriate  valuation  techniques  for  the  fair  value  determination  of  the  JAB-Group's  investments  and 

redeemable shares and accounting for share-based payment transactions.  

If any of these estimates or assumptions are  subsequently  found to be incorrect, the valuation figures  may 

also  be  incorrect  and  may  have  to  be  reconsidered.  This  could  have  material  adverse  effects  on  the  JAB-

Group's net assets, financial condition or results of operations. 

Changes in tax law 

The  business  of  the  JAB-Group  is  subject  to  the  general  tax  frameworks  in  Luxembourg  and  the 

Netherlands.  Its  tax  burden  is  dependent  on  various  aspects  of  tax  laws  as  well  as  their  application  and 

interpretation. Tax laws can be changed retroactively, and their application/interpretation can be amended by 

the tax authorities and the courts. These possibilities can also increase the tax burden of the JAB-Group and 

could have a material adverse effect on the business, net assets, financial position, cash flow and income of 

the JAB-Group. 

Rating risks 

The Issuer's/Guarantor's/JAB-Group's ability to compete successfully in the market for funding depends on 

various  factors, including financial stability as reflected by  its operating results and credit ratings assigned 

by  recognised  credit  agencies.  As  a  result,  a  downgrade  in  such  credit  ratings  may  impact  the 

Issuer's/Guarantor's/JAB-Group's ability to raise funding, which could adversely affect its business, financial 

condition and results of operations. 

As  of  the  date  of  this  Prospectus,  the  rating  of  the  Guarantor  is  Baa2  with  stable  outlook,  as  assigned  by 

Moody's Investors Services Limited ("Moody's"), and A- with a positive outlook, as assigned by Standard & 

Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. ("S&P"). 

Credit  ratings  are  susceptible  to  change  at  any  time,  and  in  light  of  the  above,  the  Guarantor's  corporate 

credit rating could be downgraded at any time in accordance with the rating agencies criteria. 

Please also refer to "Credit ratings may not reflect all risks and are subject to change" below. 

Risk Factors related to the structure of the Notes  

Notes may not be a suitable investment for all investors 

Each  potential  investor  in  the  Notes  must  determine  the  suitability  of  that  investment  in  light  of  its  own 

circumstances. In particular, each potential investor should: 

(i) 

have sufficient knowledge and experience to make a meaningful evaluation of the Notes, the merits 

and risks of investing in the Notes and the information contained or incorporated by reference in this 

Prospectus or any applicable supplement; 

12 

(ii) 

have  access  to,  and  knowledge  of,  appropriate  analytical  tools  to  evaluate,  in  the  context  of  its 

particular financial situation, an investment in the Notes and the impact such investment will have on 

its overall investment portfolio; 

(iii) 

have sufficient financial resources and liquidity to bear all of the risks of an investment in the Notes, 

including  where  the  currency  for  principal  or  interest  payments  is  different  from  the  potential 

investor's currency; 

(iv) 

understand  thoroughly  the  terms  of  the  Notes  and  be  familiar  with  the  behaviour  of  any  relevant 

financial markets; and 

(v) 

be  able  to  evaluate  (either  alone  or  with  the  help  of  a  financial  adviser)  possible  scenarios  for 

economic,  interest  rate  and  other  factors  that  may  affect  its  investment  and  its  ability  to  bear  the 

applicable risks. 

The  Notes  may  be  purchased  as  a  way  to  reduce  risk  or  enhance  yield  with  an  understood,  measured, 

appropriate addition of risk to a potential investor's overall portfolio. A potential investor should not invest in 

the Notes unless it has the expertise (either alone or with the help of a financial adviser) to evaluate how the 

Notes  will  perform  under  changing  conditions,  the  resulting  effects  on  the  value  of  such  Notes  and  the 

impact this investment will have on the potential investor's overall investment portfolio. 

Fixed Rate Interest 

The Notes will bear a fixed rate interest on their outstanding amount. Investors are exposed to the risk that 

the price of the Notes may fall because of changes in the market yield. While the nominal interest rate (i.e. 

the coupon) of the Notes is fixed during the life of the Notes, the market yield typically changes on a daily 

basis. As  the  market  yield  changes,  the  price  of  the  Notes  changes  in  the  opposite  direction.  If  the  market 

yield increases, the price of the Notes typically falls. If the market yield falls, the price of the Note typically 

increases. Investors should be aware that movements of the market yield can adversely affect the price of the 

Notes and can lead to losses for the investors.  

Investors should also be aware that the market yield has two components, namely the  risk-free rate and the 

credit spread. The credit spread is reflective of the yield that investors require in addition to the yield on a 

risk-free investment of equal tenor as a compensation for the risks inherent in the Notes. The credit spread 

changes over time and can decrease as well as increase for a large number of different reasons. The market 

yield of the Notes can change due to changes of the credit spread, the risk-free rate, or both. 

In  addition,  investors  are  exposed  to  reinvestment  risk  with  respect  to  proceeds  from  coupon  payments.  If 

the  market  yield  declines,  and  if  investors  want  to  invest  such  payments  in  comparable  transactions, 

investors will only be able to reinvest such proceeds in comparable transactions at the then prevailing lower 

market yields. 

Re-investment Risk  

The Issuer is entitled  to terminate the Notes early  upon occurrence of a Gross-up Event (as defined in the 

Terms and Conditions). If the occurrence of such event becomes likely, the  market value of the Notes will 

probably be negatively affected and will generally not rise substantially above the price at which the Notes 

can be redeemed.  

In the case of such early redemption an investor may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds at an 

effective interest rate as high as the interest rate on the Notes being redeemed and may only be able to do so 

at a significantly lower rate. Depending on the situation of the financial markets at the time, an investor may 

even be unable to reinvest the redemption proceeds at all within a reasonable timeframe.  Potential investors 

should consider reinvestment risk in light of other investments available at that time. 

13 

Long-term securities  

The Notes 2027 will be redeemed on 17 April 2027 and the Notes 2035 will be redeemed on 17 April 2035, 

unless  they  have  been  previously  redeemed. The  Issuer  is  under  no  obligation  to  redeem  the  Notes  at  any 

time  before  this  date.  Investors  have  no  right  to  call  for  early  redemption  of  the  Notes  except  following  a 

Change  of  Control  or  the  occurrence  of  an  Event  of  Default  (each  as  further  described  in  the  Terms  and 

Conditions). In  the event that an investor calls the Notes early investors  may suffer a lower than expected 

yield and  may  not be able to reinvest the  funds on the same terms. In the case of an Event of Default, the 

redemption  proceeds  may  be  lower  than  the  invested  amount  and  be  zero  resulting  in  a  total  loss  for 

investors.  

Risks  in  connection  with  the  application  of  the  German  Act  on  Issues  of  Debt  Securities  (Gesetz  über 

Schuldverschreibungen aus Gesamtemissionen) 

An  investor  is  subject  to  the  risk  of  being  outvoted  and  of  losing  rights  against  the  Issuer  against  his  will 

where other investors agree to amendments of the Terms and Conditions by majority vote according to the 

German Act on Issues of Debt Securities (Gesetz über Schuldverschreibungen aus Gesamtemissionen) (the 

"Bond Act"). Noteholders shall pass resolutions by simple majority of the voting rights participating in the 

vote. According  to  Section  5(4)  of  the  Bond Act,  a  qualified  majority  of  at  least  75%  of  the  voting  rights 

participating in the  vote is required if  material provisions of the Terms and Conditions  are to be amended. 

Any  meeting  of  Noteholders  shall  have  a  quorum  requiring  Noteholders  representing  at  least  50%  of  the 

outstanding Notes by value (Section 15(3) of the Bond Act) to be present at the meeting. If the quorum is not 

achieved  during  the  (first)  meeting,  the  chairman  may  convene  a  second  meeting.  Generally,  the  second 

meeting does not require a quorum, subject to any resolutions which require a qualified majority, in which 

case Noteholders representing at least 25% of the outstanding and not suspended (nicht ruhend) Notes must 

be  present  at  the  relevant  meeting.  In  the  case  of  an  appointment  of  a  noteholders'  representative  for  all 

investors, a particular investor may lose, in whole or in part, the possibility to enforce and claim his rights 

against the Issuer regardless of other investors. 

10% quorum in case of certain events of default 

The Terms and Conditions provide that, in case of certain events of default, any notice declaring the Notes 

due and payable shall become effective only when the paying agent has received such default notices from 

Noteholders  representing  at  least  10%  of  the  aggregate  principal  amount  of  Notes  then  outstanding.  In 

addition, under the Bond Act, even if a default notice had been given by a sufficient number of Noteholders, 

the  Noteholders  could  rescind  such  acceleration  by  majority  resolution  within  three  months.  A  simple 

majority of votes would be sufficient for a resolution on the rescission of such acceleration but, in any case, 

more Noteholders would have to consent to a rescission than have delivered default notices. 

Clearing System  

The  Notes  will  be  represented  by  one  or  more  Global  Notes.  Such  Global  Notes  will  be  deposited  with 

Clearstream  Banking  Aktiengesellschaft,  Eschborn  ("Clearstream  Frankfurt"  or  "Clearing  System"). 

Investors will not be entitled to receive definitive Notes. Clearstream Frankfurt will maintain records of the 

beneficial  interests  in  the  Global  Notes.  While  the  Notes  are  represented  by  one  or  more  Global  Notes, 

investors  will  be  able  to  trade  their  beneficial  interests  only  through  Clearstream  Frankfurt  and  the  Issuer 

will discharge its payment obligations under the Notes by making payments to Clearstream Frankfurt or to 

its order for distribution to their account holders. A holder of a beneficial interest in a Global Note must rely 

on  the  procedures  of  Clearstream  Frankfurt  to  receive  payments  under  the  Notes.  The  Issuer  has  no 

responsibility or liability for the records relating to, or payments made in respect of beneficial interests in the 

Global Notes. 

14 

Legal investment considerations may restrict certain investments 

The investment activities of certain investors are subject to legal investment laws and regulations, or review 

or  regulation  by  certain  authorities.  Each  potential  investor  should  consult  its  legal  advisers  to  determine 

whether  and  to  what  extent  (1)  Notes  are  legal  investments  for  it,  (2)  Notes  can  be  used  as  collateral  for 

various types of borrowing and (3) other restrictions apply to its purchase or pledge of any Notes. Financial 

institutions  should  consult  their  legal  advisers  or  the  appropriate  regulators  to  determine  the  appropriate 

treatment of Notes under any applicable risk-based capital or similar rules. 

European Initiative on Financial Transaction Tax  

On  14 February  2013,  the  EU  Commission  adopted  a  proposal  for  a  Council  Directive  (the  "Draft 

Directive") on a common financial transaction tax ("FTT"). According to the Draft Directive, the FTT shall 

be implemented by certain EU Member States, including Germany. 

The  proposed  FTT  has  very  broad  scope  and  could,  if  introduced,  apply  to  certain  dealings  in  the  Notes 

(including secondary market transactions) in certain circumstances. The issuance and subscription of Notes 

should, however, be exempt.  

According to the coalition agreement between the German Christdemocratic Party, the German Social Union 

and the German Socialdemocratic Party the current German government still has the intention to introduce 

an FTT. In June 2018, Germany and France agreed to further pursue the implementation of an FTT in the EU 

for  which  the  current  French  financial  transaction  tax  (which  is  mainly  focused  on  transactions  regarding 

shares  in  listed  companies  with  a  market  capitalization  of  more  than  EUR  1  billion)  could  serve  as  a  role 

model. Therefore, France and Germany recently presented a common position paper on the introduction of 

an EU-wide FTT based on the French model to the High-Level Working Party at a meeting of the Council of 

the European Union.  

Nevertheless, the FTT and its scope remains therefore subject to discussions and it is currently uncertain if 

and when the proposed FTT will be enacted and when it will take effect with regard to dealings in the Notes. 

Prospective holders of the Notes should consult their own tax advisers in relation to the consequences of the 

FTT associated with subscribing for, purchasing, holding and disposing of the Notes. 

Tax impact of the investment 

An  effective  yield  on  the  Notes  may  be  diminished  by  the  tax  impact  on  an  investment  in  the  Notes. 

Payments of interest on the Notes, or profits realised by investors upon the sale or repayment of the Notes, 

may  be  subject  to  taxation  in  their  respective  home  jurisdiction  or  in  other  jurisdictions  in  which  it  is 

required to pay taxes. The tax impact on investors generally in Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg 

is described in the section "Taxation"; however, the tax impact on individual investors may differ from the 

situation described for investors generally.  

All investors are advised to contact their own tax advisers for advice on the tax impact of an investment in 

the  Notes.  Examples  of  a  taxation  risk  that  investors  should  consider  together  with  their  advisers  include 

among  others  the  risk  of  double  taxation  (in  Germany  and  their  home  jurisdiction  or  another  country,  if 

applicable). 

Change in tax law 

Investors should be aware that tax regulations and their application by the relevant taxation authorities are 

subject  to  change,  possibly  with  retrospective  effect,  and  that  this  could  negatively  affect  the  value  of  the 

Notes. Any such change may cause the tax treatment of the Notes to change from the tax position at the time 

of purchase and  may render the statements in this Prospectus concerning the relevant tax law and practice 

inaccurate or insufficient to cover the material tax considerations in respect of the Notes. It is not possible to 

predict  the  precise  tax  treatment  which  will  apply  at  any  given  time  and  changes  in  tax  law  may  give  the 

Issuer the right to redeem the Notes. 

15 

No  obligation  to  pay additional  amounts  if  Dutch  interest  withholding  tax  applies  to payments  made  by 

the Issuer in respect of the Notes 

The  Netherlands  introduced  a  withholding  tax  on  interest  payments  which  will  enter  into  effect  as  of 

1 January 2021. This interest withholding tax will apply to interest payments directly or indirectly made by a 

Dutch entity, like the Issuer to affiliated entities (i) in low-tax jurisdictions designated as such by the Dutch 

Ministry  of  Finance  (generally,  a  jurisdiction  (a)  with  a  corporation  tax  on  business  profits  with  a  general 

statutory rate of less than 9%, or (b) a jurisdiction included in the EU list of  non-cooperative jurisdictions), 

or  (ii)  in  certain  abusive  situations.  Generally,  an  entity  is  considered  to  be  affiliated  (gelieerd)  to  another 

entity  for  these  purposes  if  such  entity,  either  individually  or  jointly  if  the  entity  is  part  of  a  collaborating 

group (samenwerkende groep), has a decisive influence on the other entity’s decisions, in such a way that it, 

or the collaborating group of which it forms part, is able to determine the activities of such other entity. An 

entity, or the collaborating group of which it forms part, that holds more than 50% of the voting rights in the 

Issuer,  or  in  which  the  Issuer  holds  more  than  50%  of  the  voting  rights,  is  in  any  event  considered  to  be 

affiliated. An  entity  is  also  considered  to  be  affiliated  if  a  third  party  holds  more  than  50%  of  the  voting 

rights both in such entity and the Issuer. 

In case as of 1 January 2021 this interest withholding tax applies to payments made by the Issuer in respect 

of  the  Notes,  the  Issuer  will  make  the  required  withholding  of  such  taxes  for  the  account  of  the  relevant 

Noteholders without being obliged to pay any additional amounts to the relevant Noteholders in respect of 

the interest  withholding tax.  Prospective investors in the  Notes should consult their own tax advisers as to 

whether this interest withholding tax could be relevant to them. 

Change of law in general 

The  Terms  and  Conditions  of  the  Notes  are  based  on  German  law  in  effect  as  of  the  date  of  issue  of  the 

relevant  Notes.  No  assurance  can  be  given  as  to  the  impact  of  any  possible  judicial  decision  or  change  to 

German law or administrative practice after the date of issue of the Notes. 

Risks related to the market generally 

The secondary market generally 

Although application has been made for the Notes to be listed on the Official List of the Luxembourg Stock 

Exchange and to be admitted to trading on the Euro MTF, the Notes may have no established trading market 

when  issued,  and  one  may  never  develop.  Even  if  a  market  develops,  it  may  not  be  liquid.  Therefore, 

investors  may  not  be  able  to  sell  their  Notes  easily  or  at  prices  that  will  provide  them  with  a  yield 

comparable to similar investments that have a developed secondary market. This is particularly the case to 

the  extent  the  Notes  are  sensitive  to  interest  rate,  currency  or  market  risks.  The  Notes  may  be  very  price 

volatile and as a consequence only a limited secondary market may develop (if any). Illiquidity may have a 

severely adverse effect on the market value of the Notes. 

Exchange rate risks and exchange controls 

The  Issuer  will  pay  principal  and  interest  on  the  Notes  in  Euro.  This  presents  certain  risks  relating  to 

currency  conversions  if  an  investor's  financial  activities  are  denominated  principally  in  a  currency  or 

currency unit (the "Investor's Currency") other than Euro. These include the risk that exchange rates may 

significantly  change  (including  changes  due  to  devaluation  of  the  Euro  or  revaluation  of  the  Investor's 

Currency) and the risk that authorities with jurisdiction over the Investor's Currency may impose or modify 

exchange  controls.  An  appreciation  in  the  value  of  the  Investor's  Currency  relative  to  the  Euro  would 

decrease  (1)  the  Investor's  Currency-equivalent  yield  on  the  Notes,  (2)  the  Investor's  Currency  equivalent 

value of the principal payable on the Notes and (3) the Investor's  Currency equivalent  market value of the 

Notes. 

16 

Government and  monetary authorities  may impose (as some have done in the past) exchange controls that 

could  adversely  affect  an  applicable  exchange  rate.  As  a  result,  investors  may  receive  less  interest  or 

principal than expected, or no interest or principal. 

Credit ratings may not reflect all risks and are subject to change 

The ratings assigned to the Guarantor and the Notes, respectively, may not reflect the potential impact of all 

risks  related  to  structure,  market,  additional  factors  discussed  above  and  other  factors  that  may  affect  the 

value of the Notes. A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be revised 

or withdrawn by the rating agency at any time. 

Rating  agencies  may  also  change  their  methodologies  for  rating  companies  such  as  the  Guarantor  and 

securities with features similar to the Notes in the future. If the rating agencies were to change their practices 

in the future and the ratings of the Guarantor and the Notes, respectively, were to be subsequently lowered, 

this may have a negative impact on the trading price of the Notes. 

The market value of the Notes could decrease if the creditworthiness of the Issuer, the Guarantor or the 

JAB-Group deteriorates 

If  the  likelihood  decreases  that  the  Issuer  and  the  Guarantor  will  be  in  a  position  to  fully  perform  all 

obligations under the Notes and the Guarantee, as applicable, as they become due, for example, because of 

the materialisation of any of the risks regarding the JAB-Group, the Issuer and/or the Guarantor, the market 

value of the Notes may fall. In addition, even if the likelihood that the Issuer and the Guarantor will be in a 

position  to  fully  perform  all  obligations  under  the  Notes  as  they  fall  due  does  not  decrease,  market 

participants could nevertheless have a different perception. Furthermore, the market participants' estimation 

of the creditworthiness of corporate debtors in general or debtors operating in the same business as the JAB-

Group  could  change  for  the  worse.  If  any  of  these  risks  materialises,  third  parties  may  only  be  willing  to 

purchase  Notes  for  a  lower  price  than  before  the  materialisation  of  mentioned  risk.  Under  these 

circumstances, the market value of the Notes may decrease. 

Transaction costs 

Transaction costs reduce the  yield an investor  will realise  on the investment in the Notes. When Notes are 

purchased,  several  types  of  incidental  costs  (including  transaction  fees  and  commissions)  are  incurred  and 

will have to be paid by the buyer in addition to the then prevailing market price. Similarly, when an investor 

sells any Notes, such incidental costs will reduce the actual price an investor will receive for each Note sold. 

These incidental costs may significantly reduce or even exclude the profit potential of an investment in the 

Notes.  For  instance,  credit  institutions  as  a  rule  charge  their  clients  commissions  which  are  either  fixed 

minimum commissions or pro rata commissions depending on the order value. To the extent that additional 

– domestic  or  foreign –  parties  are  involved  in  the  execution  of  an  order,  including  but  not  limited  to 

domestic  Managers  or  brokers  in  foreign  markets,  investors  must  take  into  account  that  they  may  also  be 

charged for the brokerage fees, commissions and other fees and expenses of such parties (third party costs). 

In addition to such costs directly related to the purchase of Notes (direct costs), investors must also take into 

account any follow-up costs (such as custody fees). Investors should inform themselves about any additional 

costs incurred in connection with the purchase, custody or sale of the Notes before investing in the Notes. 

Margin lending 

Margin lending,  where it is permitted, can  materially increase the  risk to investors of incurring losses. If a 

loan is used to finance the purchase of the Notes and the Notes subsequently go into default, or if the trading 

price diminishes significantly, an investor not only has to face a potential loss on its investment, but it will 

also still have to repay the loan and pay interest thereon. This may significantly increase the risk of a loss. 

Investors should not assume that they will be able to repay the loan or pay interest thereon from the profits 

of  a  transaction.  Instead,  investors  should  assess  their  financial  situation  prior  to  an  investment,  as  to 

17 

whether they are able to pay interest on the loan, or to repay the loan on demand, even if they face losses on 

such investment. 

Market volatility and other factors 

The trading market for debt securities may be volatile and may be adversely impacted by many events. The 

market  for  debt  securities  is  influenced  by  economic  and  market  conditions  in  Germany  and,  to  varying 

degrees, by market conditions, interest rates, currency exchange rates and inflation rates in other European 

and other industrialised countries. There can be no assurance that events in Germany, Europe or elsewhere 

will not cause market volatility or that such volatility will not adversely affect the price of  Notes. Investors 

also  bear  the  risk  that  economic  and  market  conditions  will  have  any  other  adverse  effect  on  the  trading 

pattern and the market value of the Notes. 

 

18 

RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 

Each of the Issuer and the Guarantor accepts responsibility for the information contained in this Prospectus 

and  hereby  declares  that,  having  taken  all  reasonable  care  to  ensure  that  such  is  the  case,  the  information 

contained  in  this  Prospectus  is,  to  the  best  of  its  knowledge,  in  accordance  with  the  facts  and  contains  no 

omission likely to affect its import. 

Each  of  the  Issuer  and  the  Guarantor  further  confirms  that  (i) this  Prospectus  contains  all  relevant 

information with respect to the Issuer and the Guarantor as well as to the JAB-Group and to the Notes and 

the Guarantee which is material in the context of the issue and offering of the Notes, including all relevant 

information which, according to the particular nature of the Issuer and the Guarantor and the Notes and the 

Guarantee, is necessary to enable investors and their investment advisers to make an informed assessment of 

the assets and liabilities, financial position, profits and losses, and prospects of the Issuer, the Guarantor and 

the JAB-Group and of the rights attached to the Notes and the Guarantee; (ii) the statements contained in this 

Prospectus  relating  to  the  Issuer,  the  Guarantor,  the  JAB-Group,  the  Notes  and  the  Guarantee  are  in  every 

material particular true and accurate and not misleading; (iii) there are no other facts in relation to the Issuer, 

the Guarantor, the JAB-Group, the Notes or the Guarantee the omission of  which  would, in the context of 

the issue and offering of the Notes, make any statement in the Prospectus misleading in any material respect; 

and (iv) reasonable enquiries have been made by the Issuer and the Guarantor to ascertain such facts and to 

verify the accuracy of all such information and statements. 

19 

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE NOTES 2027 

BEDINGUNGEN DER 

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE NOTES  

SCHULDVERSCHREIBUNGEN 

("Terms and Conditions") 

("Anleihebedingungen") 

Diese  Anleihebedingungen  sind  in  deutscher  Sprache 

These  Terms  and  Conditions  are  written  in  the 

abgefasst. Eine Übersetzung in die englische Sprache 

German  language  and  provided  with  an  English 

ist  beigefügt.  Der  deutsche  Text  ist  bindend  und 

language  translation.  The  German  text  shall  be 

maßgeblich.  Die  Übersetzung 

in  die  englische 

controlling  and  binding.  The  English 

language 

Sprache ist unverbindlich. 

translation is provided for convenience only. 

§ 1  Währung, Stückelung, Form 

§ 1  Currency, Denomination, Form 

(a)  Währung; Stückelung.  Die JAB Holdings B.V. 

(a) 

Currency;  Denomination.  The  Notes  are 

(die 

"Emittentin") 

Schuldverschreibungen 

begibt 

(die 

issued by JAB Holdings B.V. (the "Issuer") in 

Euro  (the  "Specified  Currency"), 

in 

the 

"Schuldverschreibungen") 

in  Euro 

(die 

aggregate 

principal 

amount 

of 

"Festgelegte 

Währung") 

im 

EUR 500,000,000,  divided  into  notes  in  the 

Gesamtnennbetrag 

von  EUR 500.000.000, 

specified  denomination  of  EUR 100,000  (the 

eingeteilt 

in 

Schuldverschreibungen 

im 

"Specified  Denomination") 

each 

(the 

festgelegten  Nennbetrag  von  je  EUR 100.000 

"Notes"). 

(der "Festgelegte Nennbetrag"). 

Die  Schuldverschreibungen  werden  von  der 

The  Notes  are  guaranteed  by  JAB  Holding 

JAB  Holding  Company 

S.à r.l. 

(die 

Company S.à r.l. (the "Guarantor"). 

"Garantin") garantiert. 

(b) 

Form.  Die  Schuldverschreibungen  lauten  auf 

(b) 

Form.  The Notes are issued in bearer form. 

den Inhaber. 

(c) 

Vorläufige  Globalurkunde  –  Austausch.  Die 

(c) 

Temporary  Global  Note  –  Exchange.  The 

Schuldverschreibungen  sind  zunächst  in  einer 

Notes  are  initially  represented  by  a  temporary 

vorläufigen  Globalurkunde  (die  "Vorläufige 

global  Note  (the  "Temporary  Global  Note") 

Globalurkunde") ohne Zinsscheine verbrieft. 

without interest coupons. 

Die  Vorläufige  Globalurkunde  wird  insgesamt 

The  Temporary  Global  Note  will  be 

oder  teilweise  und  unentgeltlich  am  oder  nach 

exchangeable,  in  whole  or  in  part  and  free  of 

dem  Tag,  der  40  Tage  nach  dem  Tag  der 

charge  to  the  holder  of  Notes,  on  or  after  the 

Begebung 

der 

Schuldverschreibungen, 

day  that  is  40  days  after  the  later  of  the 

frühestens  jedoch  40  Tage  nach  dem  Tag  des 

commencement of the offering and the date of 

Beginns  des  Angebots  liegt,  gegen  Nachweis 

issue of the Notes for a permanent global Note 

über  das  Nichtbestehen  wirtschaftlichen  U.S.-

(the 

"Permanent  Global  Note") 

(the 

Eigentums im Sinne des U.S.-Rechts (non-U.S. 

Temporary  Global  Note  and  the  Permanent 

beneficial ownership) in der in der Vorläufigen 

Global  Note,  each  a  "Global  Note")  without 

Globalurkunde  vorgesehenen  Form,  für  den 

interest  coupons  upon  certification  as  to  non-

Inhaber von Schuldverschreibungen gegen eine 

U.S.  beneficial  ownership  in  the  form  set  out 

dauerhafte  Globalurkunde 

(die 

"Dauer-

in the Temporary Global Note. The right of the 

Globalurkunde") 

(die 

Vorläufige 

Noteholders  to  require  the  issue  and  delivery 

Globalurkunde  und  die  Dauer-Globalurkunde 

of  definitive  notes  or  interest  coupons  is 

jeweils  auch  eine  "Globalurkunde")  ohne 

excluded. 

Zinsscheine  eingetauscht.  Ein  Recht  der 

Anleihegläubiger  auf  Ausgabe  und  Lieferung 

20 

von Einzelurkunden oder Zinsscheinen besteht 

nicht. 

(d) 

Clearingsystem.  Die 

Vorläufige 

(d) 

Clearing  System.  Each  of 

the  Temporary 

Globalurkunde  und  die  Dauer-Globalurkunde 

Global  Note  and  the  Permanent  Global  Note 

werden  solange  von  einem  Clearingsystem 

will  be  held  in  custody  by  or  on  behalf  of  a 

oder 

im  Auftrag  eines  Clearingsystems 

Clearing  System  until  all  obligations  of  the 

verwahrt,  bis  sämtliche  Verpflichtungen  der 

Issuer under the Notes have been satisfied. 

Emittentin  aus  den  Schuldverschreibungen 

erfüllt sind. 

"Clearingsystem" 

bezeichnet  Clearstream 

"Clearing  System"  means  Clearstream 

Banking Aktiengesellschaft,  Mergenthalerallee 

Banking Aktiengesellschaft,  Mergenthalerallee 

61, 

65760 

Eschborn, 

Bundesrepublik 

61,  65760  Eschborn,  Federal  Republic  of 

Deutschland, sowie jeden Funktionsnachfolger. 

Germany and any successor in such capacity. 

Die  Vorläufige  Globalurkunde  und  die  Dauer-

The  Temporary  Global  Note 

and 

the 

Globalurkunde 

tragen 

jeweils 

die 

Permanent  Global  Note  shall  each  bear  the 

eigenhändigen  Unterschriften 

von 

zwei 

manual  signatures  of  two  duly  authorised 

Vertretungsberechtigten  der  Emittentin  sowie 

officers  of  the  Issuer  as  well  as  the  manual 

die 

eigenhändige 

Unterschrift 

eines 

signature  of  an  authentication  officer  of  the 

Kontrollbeauftragten der Hauptzahlstelle. 

Principal Paying Agent. 

(e) 

Anleihegläubiger.  Den 

Inhabern 

von 

(e) 

Noteholders.  The 

holders 

of 

Notes 

Schuldverschreibungen  ("Anleihegläubiger") 

("Noteholders")  are  entitled  to  co-ownership 

stehen  Miteigentumsanteile  oder  vergleichbare 

participations or other comparable rights in the 

andere  Rechte  an  der  Globalurkunde  zu,  die 

Global  Note,  which  are 

transferable 

in 

gemäß 

anwendbarem  Recht 

und 

Bestimmungen 

und 

Regeln 

den 

des 

Clearingsystems übertragen werden können. 

accordance  with  applicable  laws  and  the  rules 

and regulations of the Clearing System. 

§ 2 

Status, Negativerklärung und Garantie  

§ 2 

Status, Negative Pledge and Guarantee  

(a) 

Status.  Die  Schuldverschreibungen  begründen 

(a) 

Status.  The  Notes  constitute  unsubordinated 

nicht  nachrangige  und,  vorbehaltlich  der 

and,  subject 

to 

the  Guarantee,  unsecured 

Garantie,  nicht  besicherte  Verbindlichkeiten 

obligations  of  the  Issuer  ranking  pari  passu 

der  Emittentin,  die 

im  gleichen  Rang 

among  themselves  and,  in  the  event  of  the 

untereinander und, im Falle der Auflösung, der 

dissolution,  liquidation  or  insolvency  of  the 

Liquidation  oder  der  Insolvenz  der  Emittentin 

Issuer  or  any  proceeding  to  avoid  insolvency 

oder  eines  der  Abwendung  der  Insolvenz  der 

of the Issuer,  pari passu  with all other present 

Emittentin  dienenden  Verfahrens,  im  gleichen 

and  future  unsubordinated  and  unsecured 

Rang  mit  allen  anderen  gegenwärtigen  und 

obligations  of 

the  Issuer,  save  for  such 

zukünftigen  nicht  besicherten  und  nicht 

obligations  which  may  be  preferred  by 

nachrangigen Verbindlichkeiten  der  Emittentin 

applicable law. 

stehen,  mit  Ausnahme  von  Verbindlichkeiten, 

die 

nach 

geltenden  Rechtsvorschriften 

vorrangig sind. 

(b) 

Negativerklärung 

der  Emittentin.  Solange 

(b) 

Negative  pledge  of  the  Issuer.  So  long  as  any 

noch  Kapital-  oder  Zinsbeträge  aus  den 

amounts  of 

interest  or  principal 

remain 

Schuldverschreibungen  ausstehen,  jedoch  nur 

outstanding under the Notes, but only up to the 

bis  zu  dem  Zeitpunkt,  an  dem  alle  auf  die 

time all amounts payable to Noteholders under 

Schuldverschreibungen 

gemäß 

diesen 

the  Notes  in  accordance  with  these Terms  and 

21 

Anleihebedingungen  zu  zahlenden  Beträge  an 

Conditions have been placed at the disposal of 

Kapital  und  Zinsen  dem  Clearingsystem  zur 

the Clearing System, the Issuer undertakes not 

Verfügung  gestellt  worden  sind,  verpflichtet 

to  create  or  permit  to  subsist  any  mortgage, 

sich  die  Emittentin,  kein  Grundpfandrecht, 

charge,  pledge  or  other  form  of  encumbrance 

Mobiliarpfandrecht,  Pfandrecht  oder  sonstiges 

in  rem  (each  a  "Security  Interest")  over  the 

dingliches 

Sicherungsrecht 

(jedes 

ein 

whole or any part of its present or future assets 

"Sicherungsrecht") 

an 

ihren 

gesamten 

or  revenues  to  secure  any  Capital  Market 

gegenwärtigen 

oder 

zukünftigen 

Indebtedness,  without  prior  thereto  or  at  the 

Vermögenswerten oder Einkünften oder Teilen 

same  time  letting  the  Noteholders  either  share 

davon 

zur 

Besicherung 

einer 

equally and ratably in such Security Interest or 

Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit  zu  gewähren  oder 

benefit  from  an  equivalent  other  Security 

bestehen 

zu 

lassen,  ohne 

zuvor  oder 

Interest  which  will  be  approved  by  an 

gleichzeitig  entweder  die  Anleihegläubiger 

independent  expert  as  being  equivalent 

gleichrangig  und  anteilig  an  einem  solchen 

security. 

Sicherungsrecht zu beteiligen oder zu Gunsten 

der 

Anleihegläubiger 

ein 

anderes, 

gleichwertiges  Sicherungsrecht  zu  bestellen, 

welches 

von 

einem 

unabhängigen 

Sachverständigen  als  gleichwertige  Sicherheit 

beurteilt wird. 

Die  vorgenannte  Verpflichtung  findet  keine 

The  above  undertaking  will  not  apply  to  a 

Anwendung  auf  ein  Sicherungsrecht,  das 

Security  Interest  which 

is  (i)  mandatory 

(i) nach  dem  anzuwendenden  Recht  zwingend 

according to applicable laws or (ii) required as 

notwendig  oder  (ii)  als  Voraussetzung  einer 

a prerequisite for governmental approvals. 

staatlichen Genehmigung erforderlich ist. 

Ein  nach  § 2(b) zu  leistendes  Sicherungsrecht 

Any  Security  Interest  which  is  to  be  provided 

kann  auch  zu  Gunsten  eines 

für  die 

pursuant  to  § 2(b)  may  also  be  provided  to  a 

Anleihegläubiger 

handelnden  Treuhänders 

person acting as trustee for the Noteholders. 

bestellt werden. 

"Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit" 

ist 

jede 

"Capital  Market  Indebtedness"  means  any 

gegenwärtige  oder  zukünftige  Verbindlichkeit 

indebtedness,  present  or  future,  of  the  Issuer, 

der Emittentin, der Garantin oder eines Dritten 

the Guarantor or any third party in the form of 

in  der  Form  von  Schuldverschreibungen  oder 

Notes  or  bond  or  similar  instruments  with  an 

ähnlichen 

Instrumenten 

mit 

einer 

original maturity of more than one year, which 

ursprünglichen  Laufzeit  von  mehr  als  einem 

can  be  traded  on  any  stock  exchange  or  other 

Jahr, die an einer Börse oder an einem anderen 

securities market. 

Wertpapiermarkt gehandelt werden können. 

(c) 

Garantie.  Die Garantin hat die unbedingte und 

(c) 

Guarantee.  The  Guarantor  has  given  an 

unwiderrufliche  Garantie  für  die  fristgerechte 

unconditional 

and 

irrevocable  guarantee 

Zahlung von Kapital, Zinsen und sonstigen aus 

pursuant  to  a  guarantee  dated  17  April  2020 

den  Schuldverschreibungen  zu  zahlenden 

(the  "Guarantee")  for  the  due  payment  of 

Beträgen  gemäß  einer  Garantie  vom  17. April 

principal  of,  and  interest  on,  and  any  other 

2020  (die  "Garantie")  übernommen.  Die 

amounts  expressed  to  be  payable  under  the 

Garantie 

ist  ein  Vertrag  zugunsten 

jedes 

Notes. The Guarantee constitutes a contract for 

Anleihegläubigers  als  begünstigtem  Dritten 

the  benefit  of  the  Noteholders  from  time  to 

gem.  § 328  Absatz  1 BGB,  der  das  Recht 

time  as  third  party  beneficiaries  in  accordance 

begründet,  die  Garantin  unmittelbar  aus  der 

with  § 328  paragraph  1  of  the  German  Civil 

Garantie auf Erfüllung in Anspruch zu nehmen 

Code (Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch), giving rise to 

22 

und  Ansprüche  aus  der  Garantie  gegen  die 

the  right  of  each  Noteholder 

to  require 

Garantin unmittelbar durchzusetzen.  

performance under the Guarantee directly from 

the  Guarantor  and  to  enforce  the  Guarantee 

directly against the Guarantor. 

(d) 

Negativerklärung 

der  Garantin.  In 

der 

(d) 

Negative  Pledge  of  the  Guarantor.  In  the 

Garantie  hat  sich  die  Garantin  verpflichtet, 

Guarantee  the  Guarantor  has  undertaken,  so 

solange  noch  Kapital-  oder  Zinsbeträge  aus 

long  as  any  amounts  of  interest  or  principal 

den  Schuldverschreibungen  ausstehen,  jedoch 

remain  outstanding  under  the  Notes,  but  only 

nur  bis  zu  dem  Zeitpunkt,  an  dem  alle  auf  die 

up  to  the  time  all  amounts  due  to  Noteholders 

Schuldverschreibungen 

gemäß 

diesen 

under  the  Notes  in  accordance  with  these 

Anleihebedingungen 

fälligen  Beträge 

an 

Terms and Conditions  have been placed at the 

Kapital  und  Zinsen  dem  Clearingsystem  zur 

disposal  of  the  Clearing  System,  not  to  create 

Verfügung 

gestellt  worden 

sind, 

kein 

or  permit  to  subsist  any  Security  Interest  over 

Sicherungsrecht 

an 

ihren 

gesamten 

the  whole  or  any  part  of  its  present  or  future 

gegenwärtigen 

oder 

zukünftigen 

assets  or  revenues  to  secure  any  Capital 

Vermögenswerten oder Einkünften oder Teilen 

Market  Indebtedness,  without  prior  thereto  or 

davon 

zur  Besicherung 

einer 

anderen 

at the same time letting the Noteholders either 

gegenwärtigen 

oder 

zukünftigen 

share  equally  and  ratably  in  such  Security 

Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit 

zu 

gewähren, 

Interest  or  benefit  from  an  equivalent  other 

ohne  zuvor  oder  gleichzeitig  entweder  die 

Security Interest which will be approved by an 

Anleihegläubiger  gleichrangig  und  anteilig  an 

independent  expert  as  being  equivalent 

einem  solchen  Sicherungsrecht  zu  beteiligen 

security. 

oder  zu  Gunsten  der  Anleihegläubiger  ein 

anderes,  gleichwertiges  Sicherungsrecht  zu 

bestellen,  welches  von  einem  unabhängigen 

Sachverständigen  als  gleichwertige  Sicherheit 

beurteilt wird. 

Die  vorgenannte  Verpflichtung  findet  keine 

The  above  undertaking  will  not  apply  to  a 

Anwendung  auf  ein  Sicherungsrecht,  das  (i) 

Security  Interest  which 

is  (i)  mandatory 

nach  dem  anzuwendenden  Recht  zwingend 

according to applicable laws or (ii) required as 

notwendig  oder  (ii)  als  Voraussetzung  einer 

a prerequisite for governmental approvals. 

staatlichen Genehmigung erforderlich ist. 

Ein  nach  der  Garantie 

zu 

leistendes 

Any  Security  Interest  which  is  to  be  provided 

Sicherungsrecht  kann  auch  zu  Gunsten  eines 

pursuant 

to 

the  Guarantee  may  also  be 

für 

die  Anleihegläubiger 

handelnden 

provided  to  a  person  acting  as  trustee  for  the 

Treuhänders bestellt werden. 

Noteholders. 

§ 3 

Zinsen 

§ 3 

Interest 

(a) 

Zinssatz 

und 

Zinszahlungstage.  Die 

(a) 

Rate  of 

interest  and 

Interest  Payment 

Schuldverschreibungen  werden  bezogen  auf 

Dates.  The  Notes  bear 

interest  on 

their 

ihren  ausstehenden  Nennbetrag  ab  dem 

outstanding  principal  amount 

from  and 

17. April  2020  (der  "Verzinsungsbeginn") 

including  17  April  2020 

(the  "Interest 

(einschließlich)  bis  zum  Endfälligkeitstag 

Commencement  Date")  to  but  excluding  the 

(ausschließlich) verzinst. 

Maturity Date. 

Die  Schuldverschreibungen  werden  mit 

The Notes bear interest at the rate of 2.500 per 

jährlich  2,500 %  verzinst.  Die  Zinsen  sind 

cent. per annum, such interest being payable in 

nachträglich 

an 

jedem  Zinszahlungstag 

arrear on each Interest Payment Date. 

zahlbar. 

23 

"Zinszahlungstag"  bezeichnet  den  17.  April 

"Interest  Payment  Date"  means  17  April  in 

eines  jeden  Jahres,  erstmals  den  17.  April 

each year, commencing on 17 April 2021. 

2021. 

(b) 

Zinstagequotient.  Zinsen  für  einen  beliebigen 

(b)  Day  Count  Fraction.  If  interest  is  required  to 

Zeitraum  (ausgenommen 

ist  ein  etwaiger 

be calculated for any period of time (other than 

Zeitraum,  für  den  ein  Bruchteilzinsbetrag 

any period of time for which a broken interest 

festgelegt  ist)  werden  auf  der  Grundlage  des 

amount  has  been  fixed),  such  interest  shall  be 

Zinstagequotienten berechnet. 

calculated  on  the  basis  of  the  Day  Count 

Fraction. 

"Zinstagequotient" 

bezeichnet 

bei 

der 

"Day  Count  Fraction"  means,  in  respect  of 

Berechnung  des  Zinsbetrages 

für  einen 

the calculation of an amount of interest on any 

beliebigen Zeitraum (ab dem ersten Tag dieses 

Note  for  any  period  of  time  (from  and 

Zeitraums  (einschließlich)  bis  zum  letzten Tag 

including  the  first  day  of  such  period  to  but 

dieses  Zeitraums 

(ausschließlich)) 

(der 

excluding  the  last  day  of  such  period)  (the 

"Zinsberechnungszeitraum"): 

"Calculation Period"): 

(i) 

wenn  der  Zinsberechnungszeitraum  der 

(i) 

if  the  Calculation  Period  is  equal  to  or 

Feststellungsperiode  entspricht,  in  die 

shorter  than  the  Determination  Period 

er  fällt,  oder  kürzer  als  diese  ist,  die 

during  which  it  falls,  the  number  of 

Anzahl 

von 

Tagen 

in 

dem 

days  in  the  Calculation  Period  divided 

Zinsberechnungszeitraum 

dividiert 

by  the  product  of  (A)  the  number  of 

durch  das  Produkt  aus  (A)  der  Anzahl 

days  in  such  Determination  Period  and 

von  Tagen 

in 

der 

betreffenden 

(B) 

the  number  of  Determination 

Feststellungsperiode und (B) der Anzahl 

Periods  normally  ending  in  any  year; 

der 

Feststellungsperioden, 

die 

and 

üblicherweise in einem Jahr enden; und 

(ii)  wenn  der  Zinsberechnungszeitraum 

(ii) 

if  the  Calculation  Period  is  longer  than 

länger  als  eine  Feststellungsperiode  ist, 

one Determination Period, the sum of: 

die Summe aus: 

(A) 

der  Anzahl  der  Tage  in  dem 

(A) 

the  number  of  days  in  such 

betreffenden 

Zinsberechnungszeitraum,  die  in 

die  Feststellungsperiode  fallen, 

in 

der 

der 

Zinsberechnungszeitraum 

beginnt,  dividiert  durch  das 

Produkt  aus  (1)  der  Anzahl  der 

Tage 

in 

der 

betreffenden 

Feststellungsperiode  und  (2)  der 

Anzahl 

Feststellungsperioden, 

der 

die 

üblicherweise 

in  einem  Jahr 

enden; und 

Calculation  Period  falling  in  the 

Determination  Period  in  which 

the  Calculation  Period  begins 

divided by the product of (1) the 

number 

of 

days 

in 

such 

Determination Period and (2) the 

number 

of 

Determination 

Periods  normally  ending  in  any 

year; and 

(B) 

die  Anzahl  der  Tage  in  dem 

(B) 

the  number  of  days  in  such 

betreffenden 

Zinsberechnungszeitraum,  die  in 

die 

nachfolgende 

Calculation  Period  falling  in  the 

next  Determination 

Period 

divided by the product of (1) the 

24 

Feststellungsperiode 

fallen, 

dividiert  durch  das  Produkt  aus 

(1)  der  Anzahl  der  Tage  in  der 

betreffenden 

number 

of 

days 

in 

such 

Determination Period and (2) the 

number 

of 

Determination 

Periods  normally  ending  in  any 

Feststellungsperiode  und  (2)  der 

year 

Anzahl 

Feststellungsperioden, 

der 

die 

üblicherweise 

in  einem  Jahr 

enden. 

Dabei gilt Folgendes: 

Where: 

"Feststellungstermin" 

bezeichnet 

den 

"Determination Date" means 17 April in each 

17. April eines jeden Jahres;  

year; 

"Feststellungsperiode" 

bezeichnet 

jeden 

"Determination  Period"  means  each  period 

Zeitraum 

ab 

einem 

Feststellungstermin 

from  and  including  a  Determination  Date  in 

(einschließlich), der in ein beliebiges Jahr fällt, 

any  year 

to  but 

excluding 

the  next 

bis 

zum 

nächsten 

Feststellungstermin 

Determination Date. 

(ausschließlich). 

(c) 

Ende 

des  Zinslaufs.  Der  Zinslauf 

der 

(c) 

Cessation of Interest Accrual.  The Notes shall 

Schuldverschreibungen endet an dem Ende des 

cease  to  bear  interest  from  the  end  of  the  day 

Tages, der dem Tag vorausgeht, an dem sie zur 

preceding their due date for redemption. If the 

Rückzahlung 

fällig  werden.  Falls 

die 

Issuer  fails  to  redeem  the  Notes  when  due, 

Emittentin  die  Schuldverschreibungen  bei 

interest  shall  continue 

to  accrue  on 

the 

Fälligkeit  nicht  einlöst,  wird  der  ausstehende 

outstanding  amount  from  (and  including)  the 

Betrag 

ab 

dem  Tag 

der 

Fälligkeit 

due  date  to  (but  excluding)  the  day  on  which 

(einschließlich)  bis  zum  Tag  der  vollständigen 

such payment is received by or on behalf of the 

Zahlung 

an 

die 

Anleihegläubiger 

(ausschließlich) 
bestimmten Verzugszins verzinst.1 

dem 

mit 

gesetzlich 

Noteholders  at  the  default  rate  of  interest 
established by statutory law.2  

§ 4  Rückzahlung 

§ 4  Redemption 

(a) 

Rückzahlung  bei  Endfälligkeit.  Soweit  nicht 

(a) 

Redemption  at  maturity.  To  the  extent  not 

zuvor  bereits 

insgesamt  oder 

teilweise 

previously  redeemed  in  whole  or  in  part,  or 

zurückgezahlt  oder  angekauft  und  eingezogen, 

purchased  and  cancelled  the  Notes  shall  be 

werden  die  Schuldverschreibungen  zu  ihrem 

redeemed  at  their  Specified  Denomination  on 

Festgelegten  Nennbetrag  am  17.  April  2027 

17 April 2027 (the "Maturity Date").  

(der "Endfälligkeitstag") zurückgezahlt.  

(b) 

Vorzeitige  Rückzahlung  wegen  des  Eintritts 

(b) 

Early redemption following a Gross up Event. 

eines Gross-up-Ereignisses. 

Sofern 

nach 

der 

Begebung 

der 

If  at  any  time  after  the  issue  of  the  Notes  a 

Schuldverschreibungen  ein  Gross-up-Ereignis 

Gross up Event (as defined below) occurs, the 

(wie  nachstehend  definiert)  eintritt,  ist  die 

Issuer  may  call  and  redeem  the  Notes  (in 

Emittentin 

berechtigt, 

die 

whole but not in part) at any time on giving not 

                                                           
1 

 

Der gesetzliche Verzugszinssatz entspricht dem von der Deutschen Bundesbank von Zeit zu Zeit veröffentlichten Basiszinssatz 
zuzüglich fünf Prozentpunkten, §§ 288 Abs. 1, 247 Abs. 1 BGB.  

2 

 

The default rate of interest established by statutory law is five  percentage points above the basis rate of interest published by 
Deutsche  Bundesbank  from  time  to  time,  §§  288  paragraph  1,  247  paragraph  1  of  the  German  Civil  Code  (Bürgerliches 
Gesetzbuch).  

25 

Schuldverschreibungen 

jederzeit  (insgesamt, 

less  than  30  nor  more  than  60  days'  notice  in 

jedoch  nicht  nur  teilweise)  durch  Erklärung 

accordance  with  § 4(c).  In  this  case  the  Issuer 

gemäß  § 4(c)  unter  Einhaltung  einer  Frist  von 

will  redeem  each  Note  at 

its  Specified 

nicht  weniger  als  30  und  nicht  mehr  als  60 

Denomination together with interest accrued to 

Tagen  zu  kündigen.  Die  Emittentin 

ist 

but  excluding  such  the  date  of  redemption 

verpflichtet,  jede  Schuldverschreibung  an  dem 

specified 

in 

the  notice  on 

the  date  of 

in 

der 

Bekanntmachung 

festgelegten 

redemption specified in the notice. 

Kündigungstag 

zu 

ihrem 

Festgelegten 

Nennbetrag  zuzüglich  bis  zu  dem  in  der 

Bekanntmachung  festgelegten  Kündigungstag 

(ausschließlich) 

aufgelaufener 

Zinsen 

zurückzuzahlen. 

Eine solche Kündigung darf nicht früher als 90 

No  such  notice  may  be  given  earlier  than  90 

Tage  vor  dem  Tag  erfolgen,  an  dem  die 

days  prior  to  the  earliest  date  on  which  the 

Emittentin 

oder  die  Garantin 

erstmals 

Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  would  be  obliged  to 

verpflichtet  wäre,  Zusätzliche  Beträge  (wie  in 

pay the Additional Amounts (as defined in § 6) 

§ 6  definiert)  zu  zahlen  bzw.  wenn  eine 

or (as the case may be) in respect of a demand 

ordnungsgemäße  Zahlungsaufforderung  unter 

for  payment  duly  made  under  the  Guarantee, 

der Garantie erfolgen würde. 

for the first time. 

Ein  "Gross-up-Ereignis"  tritt  ein,  wenn,  der 

A  "Gross  up  Event"  will  occur  if  an  opinion 

Emittentin  oder  der  Garantin  ein  Gutachten 

of a recognised law firm has been delivered to 

einer anerkannten Anwaltskanzlei vorliegt (und 

the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  (and  the  Issuer  or 

die  Emittentin  oder  die  Garantin  der 

the  Guarantor  has  provided  the  Principal 

Hauptzahlstelle  eine  Kopie  davon  gibt)  aus 

Paying Agent with a copy thereof) stating that, 

dem  hervorgeht,  dass  die  Emittentin  oder  die 

the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor,  as  a  result  of  any 

Garantin aufgrund einer an oder nach dem Tag 

change  in,  or  amendment  to,  the  laws  (or  any 

der  Begebung  der  Schuldverschreibungen  in 

rules  or 

regulations 

thereunder)  of 

the 

Kraft  tretenden  Gesetzesänderung  (oder  einer 

Netherlands,  Luxembourg  or 

the  Federal 

Änderung 

von 

darunter 

erlassenen 

Republic  of  Germany  or  any  political 

Bestimmungen 

und  Vorschriften) 

der 

subdivision  or  any  authority  of  or  in  the 

Niederlande,  von  Luxemburg  oder  der 

Netherlands,  Luxembourg  or 

the  Federal 

Bundesrepublik  Deutschland  oder  einer  zur 

Republic  of  Germany  having  power  to  tax,  or 

Erhebung 

von 

Steuern 

berechtigten 

as a result of any change in, or amendment to, 

Gebietskörperschaft 

oder  Behörde 

der 

the official interpretation or application of any 

Niederlande,  von  Luxemburg  oder  der 

such 

laws,  rules  or  regulations  by  any 

Bundesrepublik  Deutschland,  oder  als  Folge 

legislative  body,  court,  governmental  agency 

einer Änderung der offiziellen Auslegung oder 

or 

regulatory 

authority 

(including 

Anwendung  dieser  Gesetze,  Bestimmungen 

enactment  of 

any 

legislation 

and 

the 

the 

oder  Vorschriften  durch  eine  gesetzgebende 

publication  of  any 

judicial  decision  or 

Körperschaft, 

ein 

Gericht, 

eine 

regulatory  determination),  which  change  or 

Regierungsstelle  oder  eine  Aufsichtsbehörde 

amendment  becomes  effective  on  or  after  the 

(einschließlich  des  Erlasses  von  Gesetzen 

date  of  issue  of  the  Notes  has  or  will  become 

sowie  der  Bekanntmachung  gerichtlicher  oder 

obliged to pay Additional Amounts pursuant to 

aufsichtsrechtlicher 

Entscheidungen), 

§ 6  on  the  Notes  or  the  Guarantor  has  or  will 

verpflichtet  ist  oder  verpflichtet  sein  wird, 

become  obliged  to  pay Additional Amounts  in 

Zusätzliche  Beträge  gemäß  § 6  auf  die 

respect  of  payments  due  under  the  Guarantee, 

Schuldverschreibungen  zu  zahlen,  oder  die 

and  that  obligation  cannot  be  avoided  by  the 

Garantin  verpflichtet  ist  oder  verpflichtet  sein 

Issuer  and  the  Guarantor,  respectively,  taking 

26 

wird,  Zusätzliche  Beträge  auf  fällige  Beträge 

such  measures  it  (acting  in  good  faith)  deems 

aus der Garantie zu zahlen, und die Emittentin 

reasonable and appropriate. 

bzw.  die  Garantin  diese  Verpflichtung  nicht 

abwenden  kann, 

indem 

sie  Maßnahmen 

ergreift,  die  sie  nach  Treu  und  Glauben  für 

zumutbar und angemessen hält. 

(c) 

Kündigungserklärung.  Die  Kündigung  erfolgt 

(c) 

Notice.  The  appropriate  notice  is  a  notice 

durch  Bekanntmachung  der  Emittentin  an  die 

given  by  the  Issuer  to  the  Noteholders  in 

Anleihegläubiger  gemäß  § 11.  Die  Kündigung 

accordance  with  § 11  which  notice  shall  be 

ist unwiderruflich, und in ihr wird bestimmt: 

irrevocable and shall specify: 

– 

– 

der  betreffende  Tag  der  vorzeitigen 

Rückzahlung;  

der betreffende Rückzahlungsbetrag, zu 

– 

– 

the applicable date of early redemption;  

the  applicable  redemption  amount  at 

dem 

die 

Schuldverschreibungen 

which  such  Notes  are  to  be  redeemed 

vorzeitig zurückgezahlt werden; und 

early; and 

– 

der  bis  zum  Tag  der  vorzeitigen 

– 

the  amount  of  interest  accrued  to  but 

Rückzahlung 

(ausschließlich) 

excluding  the  date  of  redemption  to  be 

aufgelaufene 

und 

zu 

zahlende 

paid. 

Zinsbetrag. 

Die  Emittentin  wird  jeder  Börse,  an  der  die 

The  Issuer  will  inform,  if  required  by  such 

Schuldverschreibungen  notiert  sind  und  deren 

stock  exchange  on  which  the  Notes  are  listed, 

Regeln eine Mitteilung an die Börse verlangen, 

such  stock  exchange  as  soon  as  possible  of 

umgehend  Mitteilung  über  die  Kündigung 

such redemption. 

machen. 

(d) 

Erwerb.  Die Emittentin oder die Garantin oder 

(d) 

Purchase.  The  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  or  any 

jede 

ihrer 

jeweiligen  Tochtergesellschaften 

of their respective subsidiaries may at any time 

können 

jederzeit  vorbehaltlich  zwingender 

and  subject  to  mandatory  provisions  of  law 

gesetzlicher 

Regelungen 

purchase  Notes 

in 

the  open  market  or 

Schuldverschreibungen  auf  dem  freien  Markt 

otherwise  and  at  any  price.  Such  acquired 

oder  anderweitig  sowie  zu  jedem  beliebigen 

Notes may be cancelled, held or resold. 

Preis 

erwerben. 

Derartig 

erworbene 

Schuldverschreibungen  können  eingezogen, 

gehalten oder wieder veräußert werden. 

(e) 

Kontrollwechsel. 

(e) 

Change of Control. 

(i)  Wenn  ein  Rückzahlungsereignis  (wie 

(i) 

If  a  Put  Event  (as  defined  below) 

nachstehend  definiert)  eintritt,  wird  die 

occurs,  the  Issuer  will  give  notice  in 

Emittentin innerhalb von 21 Tagen nach 

accordance  with  § 11  of  the  Put  Event 

Ablauf  der  jeweiligen  in  § 4(e)(v)(A), 

and the Put Record Date specifying the 

(B) oder  (C)  genannten  90-Tageperiode 

nature  of  the  Put  Event  within  21  days 

das  Rückzahlungsereignis  und  den 

of the end of the 90-day period referred 

Rückzahlungsstichtag unter Angabe der 

to  in  § 4(e)(v)(A),  (B)  or  (C),  as  the 

Umstände  des  Rückzahlungsereignisses 

case may be. 

gemäß § 11 bekannt machen.  

"Rückzahlungsstichtag" 

bezeichnet 

"Put Record Date" means the Business 

den  von  der  Emittentin  gemäß  § 4(e)(i) 

Day  fixed  by  the  Issuer  pursuant  to 

27 

festgelegten  Geschäftstag,  der  nicht 

§ 4(e)(i)  which  will  be  not  less  than  15 

weniger  als  15  und  nicht  mehr  als  30 

nor  more  than  30  days  after  the  notice 

Tage 

nach 

dem 

Tag 

Bekanntmachung 

der 

des 

Rückzahlungsereignisses  gemäß  § 11 

liegen darf. 

of the Put Event and which is published 

in accordance with § 11.  

(ii) 

Falls die Emittentin gemäß § 4(e)(i) ein 

(ii) 

If  the  Issuer  gives  notice  in  accordance 

Rückzahlungsereignis  bekannt  gemacht 

with  § 4(e)(i)  of  a  Put  Event,  each 

hat,  ist  jeder  Gläubiger  nach  seiner 

Holder  may  at  his  option  on  giving  not 

Wahl  berechtigt,  mit  einer  Frist  von 

less  than  7  days'  notice  declare  all  or 

mindestens  7  Tagen  mit  Wirkung  zum 

some  only  of  his  Notes  not  previously 

Rückzahlungsstichtag alle oder einzelne 

redeemed  due  which  notice  shall  take 

seiner Schuldverschreibungen, die noch 

effect  on  the  Put  Record  Date.  In  such 

nicht  zurückgezahlt  wurden,  vorzeitig 

case  the  Issuer  will  redeem  such  Notes 

fällig  zu  stellen.  In  einem  solchen  Fall 

on the Put Record Date at the Principal 

hat  die  Emittentin  die  betreffenden 

Amount  plus  interest  accrued  to  but 

Schuldverschreibungen 

am 

excluding the Put Record Date. 

Rückzahlungsstichtag 

zu 

ihrem 

Festgelegten  Nennbetrag 

zuzüglich 

etwaiger 

bis 

zu 

dem 

Rückzahlungsstichtag 

(ausschließlich) 

aufgelaufener Zinsen zurückzuzahlen.  

Eine  Fälligstellung  gemäß  diesem 

A  notice  pursuant  to  this  § 4(e)(ii)  has 

§ 4(e)(ii)  hat  durch  Übergabe  einer 

to  be  effected  by  delivering  a  written 

schriftlichen  Erklärung  oder  mittels 

notice  or  sending  such  notice  by 

eingeschriebenen Briefes gegenüber der 

registered  mail  to  the  Principal  Paying 

Hauptzahlstelle  zu  erfolgen  und 

ist 

Agent and is irrevocable. The respective 

unwiderruflich. 

Der 

betreffende 

Holder  must  demonstrate  with  a 

Gläubiger  hat  dabei  durch 

eine 

certificate from his Custodian that he is 

Bescheinigung 

seiner 

Depotbank 

the  holder  of  the  respective  Note(s)  at 

nachzuweisen, dass er zu dem Zeitpunkt 

the  time  of  the  declaration,  and  deliver 

der  Erklärung  Inhaber  der  betreffenden 

to 

the  Principal  Paying  Agent 

the 

Schuldverschreibung(en)  ist,  und  seine 

Note(s)  for  which  the  right  shall  be 

Schuldverschreibung(en),  für  die  das 

exercised.  

Recht  ausgeübt  werden  soll,  an  die 

Hauptzahlstelle zu liefern. 

(iii)  Ein  "Rückzahlungsereignis"  tritt  ein, 

(iii)  A "Put Event" will occur if 

wenn 

(A) 

die 

Emittentin 

Kontrollwechsel 

einen 

(wie 

(A) 

the  Issuer  announces  a  Change 

of  Control  (as  defined  below); 

nachstehend  definiert)  bekannt 

and 

macht; und 

(B) 

nach 

Eintritt 

des 

(B) 

a  Negative  Rating  Event  (as 

Kontrollwechsels  und  aufgrund 

dessen 

ein 

Negatives 

Ratingereignis  (wie  nachstehend 

definiert) eintritt. 

28 

defined  below)  occurs  after  the 

occurrence and as a result of the 

Change of Control. 

(iv)  Ein  "Kontrollwechsel"  liegt  vor,  wenn 

(iv)  A  "Change  of  Control"  occurs  if  after 

irgendeine 

Person 

oder  mehrere 

the  date  of  issue  of  the  Notes  (whether 

Personen  ("Relevante(n)  Person(en)"), 

or  not  approved  by  the  Management 

allein  oder  gemeinsam 

handelnd, 

Board  or  Supervisory  Board  of  the 

und/oder  ein  Dritter  oder  mehrere 

Issuer  or  the  Guarantor)  any  person  or 

Dritte, 

der/die 

im  Auftrag 

der 

persons  ("Relevant  Person(s)")  acting 

Relevanten  Person(en)  handelt  bzw. 

in concert and/or any person or persons 

handeln,  (soweit  es  sich  nicht  um 

acting  on  behalf  of  any  such  Relevant 

Familienmitglieder  und/oder  Mitglieder 

Person(s) 

(other 

than 

the  Family 

der  Geschäftsführung  handelt)  nach 

Members  and/or 

the  Management 

dem 

Tag 

der 

Begebung 

der 

Members),  

Schuldverschreibungen 

(unabhängig 

davon,  ob  der  Vorstand  oder  der 

Aufsichtsrat 

der  Emittentin 

oder 

Garantin  hierzu  seine  Zustimmung 

erteilt hat), 

 

(A) 

zu  irgendeinem  Zeitpunkt  direkt 

(A) 

at any time directly or indirectly 

oder  indirekt  mehr  als  35 %  der 

Geschäftsanteile 

oder 

der 

Stimmrechte 

der  Emittentin 

und/oder  der  Garantin  erwerben, 

und 

acquire(s) more than 35 per cent. 

of the shares or the voting rights 

of 

the 

Issuer 

and/or 

the 

Guarantor, and 

(B) 

die  Anzahl  der  Geschäftsanteile 

(B) 

the  number  of  shares  or  voting 

oder  der  Stimmrechte,  die  durch 

die  Relevante(n)  Person(en) 

erworben 

werden, 

Geschäftsanteile 

oder 

die 

die 

Stimmrechte 

der  Emittentin 

und/oder 

der 

Garantin 

übersteigen,  die  direkt  oder 

indirekt von Familienmitgliedern 

und 

Mitgliedern 

der 

Geschäftsführung 

gehalten 

werden. 

rights  acquired  by  the  Relevant 

Person(s)  exceeds  the  shares  or 

the  voting  rights  of  the  Issuer 

and/or  the  Guarantor  that  are 

held,  directly  or  indirectly,  by 

the  Family  Members  and  the 

Management Members. 

Wenn ein Kontrollwechsel eintritt, wird 

If  a  Change  of  Control  occurs,  the 

die  Emittentin  sobald  wie  möglich, 

Issuer  will  give  notice  in  accordance 

nachdem  sie  Kenntnis  davon  erhalten 

with § 11 of the Change of Control and 

hat,  den  Kontrollwechsel  und  den  Tag, 

the  date  on  which  the  transaction  that 

an  dem  die  Transaktion,  die  den 

constitutes  the  Change  of  Control  has 

Kontrollwechsel  bewirkt,  vollzogen 

been 

consummated 

(the 

"Record 

worden ist (der "Stichtag"), gemäß § 11 

Date")  as  soon  as  practicable  after 

bekannt machen. 

becoming aware thereof. 

"Familienmitglieder"  bezeichnet  jeden 

"Family  Members"  means  any  of  the 

derzeitigen  Aktionär  der  Agnaten  SE 

current  shareholders  of  Agnaten  SE 

und/oder  der  Lucresca  SE,  deren 

and/or  Lucresca  SE,  their  Descendants 

Abkömmlinge 

(wie 

nachstehend 

(Abkömmlinge)  (as  defined  below)  and 

definiert)  und  Ehegatten  und  jede  von 

spouses (Ehegatten) and any foundation 

29 

einem  derzeitigen  Aktionär  durch 

(Stiftung)  established 

in  accordance 

letztwillige 

Verfügung 

errichtete 

with 

a 

testamentary 

disposition 

Stiftung. 

(letztwillige  Verfügung)  of  such  current 

shareholder. 

"Abkömmlinge" 

bezeichnet 

die 

"Descendants"  means  natural  children 

leiblichen  Kinder  und  deren  leibliche 

and  their  natural  descendants.  Adopted 

Abkömmlinge.  Adoptierte  Kinder 

children  shall  in  all  respects  be  treated 

werden in jeder Beziehung wie leibliche 

equally  with  natural  children  and  pass 

Kinder  behandelt  und  gelten  wie 

on  the  quality  as  Descendants  like 

leibliche  Kinder  als  Abkömmlinge, 

natural  children,  but  always  provided 

vorausgesetzt,  die  adoptierte  Person 

wurde  vor 

ihrem  18.  Geburtstag 

adoptiert.  § 1923  Absatz  2  BGB  findet 

Anwendung. 

that  the  adoption  took  place  before  the 
18th  birthday  of  the  person  adopted. 
§ 1923(2)  of  the  German  Civil  Code 

(Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch) shall apply. 

"Mitglieder  der  Geschäftsführung" 

"Management  Members"  means  any 

bezeichnet 

jedes 

ehemaliges  oder 

past  or  current  member  of 

the 

gegenwärtige 

Mitglied 

der 

management  board  of  the  Guarantor  or 

Geschäftsführung  der  Garantin  oder 

any  other  manager  who  is  or  was 

einen 

anderen  Manager,  der 

ein 

employed  by  or  acting  on  behalf  of  the 

Arbeitsverhältnis  mit  der  Garantin  hat 

Guarantor or any of its affiliates. 

oder hatte oder im Namen der Garantin 

oder  im  Namen  eines  mit  der  Garantin 

verbundenen Unternehmen handelt oder 

handelte. 

(v) 

Ein "Negatives Ratingereignis" gilt im 

(v)  A  "Negative  Rating  Event"  shall  be 

Hinblick  auf  einen  zuvor  eingetretenen 

deemed to have occurred in respect of a 

Kontrollwechsel als eingetreten, wenn:  

Change  of  Control 

that  previously 

(A) 

für 

den 

Fall, 

dass 

Schuldverschreibungen 

die 

am 

Stichtag  über  kein  Rating  von 

einer 

Ratingagentur 

(wie 

nachstehend  definiert)  verfügen, 

keine 

einzige  Ratingagentur 

innerhalb  von  90  Tagen  ab  dem 

Stichtag (ausschließlich) (die "90 

Tageperiode")  ein  Investment 

Grade  Rating  (d.h.  mindestens 

"BBB-"  durch  S&P  oder  Fitch 

oder "Baa3" durch Moody's oder 

ein  korrespondierendes  Rating 

einer anderen Ratingagentur)  für 

die 

Schuldverschreibungen 

vergibt; oder 

occurred if:  

(A) 

in  case,  on  the  Record  Date,  no 

credit  rating  from  any  Rating 

Agency  (as  defined  below)  is 

assigned  to  the  Notes  and  no 

single  Rating Agency  assigns  an 

investment  grade  credit  rating 

(i.e.  at  least  "BBB-"  by  S&P  or 

Fitch  or  "Baa3"  by  Moody's  or 

such  other  equivalent  rating  as 

may  be  assigned  by  any  other 

rating  agency) 

to 

the  Notes 

within  90  days 

from  but 

excluding  the  Record  Date  (the 

"90-day period"); or 

(B) 

für 

den 

Fall, 

dass 

Schuldverschreibungen 

die 

am 

Stichtag 

zwar 

über 

kein 

(B) 

in  case,  on  the  Record  Date,  no 

investment  grade  credit  rating  is 

assigned to the Notes but one or 

30 

more 

non-investment 

grade 

credit ratings ("BB+" by S&P or 

Fitch  or  "Ba1"  by  Moody's  or 

such  other  equivalent  rating  as 

may  be  assigned  by  any  other 

rating  agency,  or  equivalent,  or 

worse) are assigned to the Notes 

(with  the  consent  of  the  Issuer), 

within  the  90-day  period  all 

Rating  Agencies 

downgrade 

their  respective  credit  ratings  by 

one  or  more  notches 

(for 

illustration,  "BB+"  to  "BB"  or 

"Ba1" 

to  "Ba2"  being  one 

notch), 

provided 

that 

no 

Negative  Rating  Event  occurs  if 

any  such  credit  rating  is,  within 

the  90-day  period,  subsequently 

reinstated to its earlier or a better 

credit  rating  by  at  least  one 

Rating Agency; or 

(C) 

in case, on the Record Date, one 

or  more  investment  grade  credit 

ratings are assigned to the Notes 

(with  the  consent  of  the  Issuer), 

within  the  90-day  period  all 

Rating  Agencies 

downgrade 

their  respective  credit  ratings  to 

non-investment 

grade 

credit 

ratings 

or  withdraw 

their 

respective 

credit 

ratings, 

provided 

that  no  Negative 

Rating  Event  occurs  if  any  such 

credit  rating  is,  within  the  90-

day 

period, 

subsequently 

reinstated to its earlier or a better 

investment grade credit rating by 

at least one Rating Agency or (in 

the  case  of  a  withdrawal) 

replaced  by  an  investment  grade 

credit  rating  from  any  other 

Rating Agency.  

Investment  Grade  Rating  aber 

über  ein  oder  mehrere  (mit 

Zustimmung 

der  Emittentin 

erteilte)  Non-Investment  Grade 

Ratings ("BB+" durch S&P oder 

Fitch oder "Ba1" durch Moody's 

oder 

ein 

korrespondierendes 

Rating 

einer 

anderen 

Ratingagentur  oder  gleichwertig 

oder 

schlechter) 

verfügen, 

sämtliche  Ratingagenturen 

ihr 

jeweiliges  Rating  innerhalb  der 

90-Tageperiode  um  einen  oder 

mehrere 

Punkte 

(zur 

Erläuterung:  "BB+"  nach  "BB" 

bzw. 

"Ba1" 

nach 

"Ba2" 

entspricht 

einem 

Punkt) 

absenken,  wobei  kein  Negatives 

Ratingereignis 

eintritt,  wenn 

eines  dieser  Ratings  innerhalb 

der 90-Tageperiode anschließend 

seitens 

mindestens 

einer 

Ratingagentur 

auf 

das 

ursprüngliche  oder  ein  besseres 

Rating angehoben wird; oder 

(C) 

für 

den 

Fall, 

dass 

Schuldverschreibungen 

die 

am 

Stichtag  zwar  über  ein  oder 

mehrere  (mit  Zustimmung  der 

Emittentin  erteilte)  Investment 

Grade 

Ratings 

verfügen, 

sämtliche  Ratingagenturen 

ihr 

jeweiliges  Rating  innerhalb  der 

90-Tageperiode  auf  ein  Non-

Investment 

Grade 

Rating 

absenken  oder 

ihr 

jeweiliges 

Rating zurückziehen, wobei kein 

Negatives Ratingereignis eintritt, 

wenn 

eines  dieser  Ratings 

innerhalb  der  90-Tageperiode 

anschließend  seitens  mindestens 

einer  Ratingagentur  auf  das 

ursprüngliche  oder  ein  besseres 

Investment 

Grade 

Rating 

angehoben  wird  oder  (im  Falle 

einer 

Zurückziehung) 

das 

betreffende  Rating  durch  das 

Investment  Grade  Rating  einer 

anderen  Ratingagentur  ersetzt 

31 

wird.  

Falls  die  Schuldverschreibungen  zum 

If on the Record Date the Notes carry a 

Stichtag  über  ein  Rating  von  mehr  als 

rating  from  more 

than  one  Rating 

einer  Rating  Agentur  verfügen,  von 

Agency,  at 

least  one  of  which 

is 

denen  mindestens  eines  ein  Investment 

investment grade, then § 4(e)(v)(C) will 

Grade  Rating  ist,  findet  § 4(e)(v)(C) 

apply. 

Anwendung. 

"Ratingagentur"  bezeichnet 

jeweils 

"Rating  Agency"  means  each  of 

Moody's  Investors  Services  Limited 

Moody's  Investors  Services  Limited 

("Moody's")  oder  Standard  &  Poor's 

("Moody's")  or  Standard  &  Poor's 

Rating  Services,  eine  Abteilung  von 

Rating  Services,  a  division  of  The 

The  McGraw-Hill  Companies 

Inc. 

McGraw-Hill  Companies  Inc.  ("S&P") 

("S&P"),  oder  Fitch  Ratings  Ltd 

or Fitch Ratings Ltd ("Fitch"), or any of 

("Fitch") 

oder 

eine 

jeweilige 

their respective successors. 

Nachfolgegesellschaft. 

Falls  sich  die  von  Moody's,  S&P  oder 

If  the  rating  designations  employed  by 

Fitch  verwendeten  Rating  Kategorien 

any  of  Moody's,  S&P  or  Fitch  are 

gegenüber  denen,  die 

in  § 4(e)(v) 

changed from those which are described 

angegeben  wurde,  ändern  sollten,  wird 

in  § 4(e)(v)  above,  the  Issuer  shall 

die  Emittentin 

diejenigen  Rating 

determine  the  rating  designations  of 

Kategorien  von  Moody's,  S&P  bzw. 

Moody's  or  S&P  or  Fitch 

(as 

Fitch  bestimmen,  die  den  früheren 

appropriate)  as  are  most  equivalent  to 

Rating  Kategorien  von  Moody's,  S&P 

the prior rating designations of Moody's 

bzw.  Fitch  möglichst  nahekommen. 

or  S&P  or  Fitch  and  § 4(e)(v)  shall  be 

§ 4(e)(v) 

ist 

dann 

entsprechend 

read accordingly. 

auszulegen. 

§ 5 

Zahlungen 

(a) 

Zahlungen. 

§ 5 

Payments 

(a) 

Payments. 

(i) 

Die  Zahlung  von  Kapital  und  Zinsen 

(i) 

Payment of principal and interest on the 

auf  die  Schuldverschreibungen  erfolgt 

Notes  shall  be  made  to  the  Clearing 

an  das  Clearingsystem  oder  an  dessen 

System  or  to  its  order  for  credit  to  the 

Order zur Gutschrift auf den Konten der 

relevant account holders of the Clearing 

jeweiligen 

Kontoinhaber 

Clearingsystems 

außerhalb 

des 

der 

System  outside 

the  United  States. 

Payment 

of 

interest 

on  Notes 

Vereinigten  Staaten.  Die  Zahlung  von 

represented  by  a  Temporary  Global 

Zinsen  auf  Schuldverschreibungen,  die 

Note 

shall  be  made,  upon  due 

durch  eine  Vorläufige  Globalurkunde 

certification  as  provided  in  § 1(c). Any 

verbrieft 

sind, 

erfolgt 

nach 

reference in these Terms and Conditions 

ordnungsgemäßem  Nachweis  gemäß 

of the Notes to principal or interest will 

§ 1(c).  Eine  Bezugnahme 

in  diesen 

be  deemed  to  include  any  Additional 

Anleihebedingungen  auf  Kapital  oder 

Amounts as set forth in § 6. 

Zinsen 

der 

Schuldverschreibungen 

schließt  jegliche  Zusätzlichen  Beträge 

gemäß § 6 ein. 

(ii) 

Sämtliche  Zahlungen  stehen  in  allen 

(ii)  All payments will be subject in all cases 

Fällen  unter  dem  Vorbehalt  geltender 

to  any  applicable  fiscal  and  other  laws, 

32 

steuerlicher  und  sonstiger  gesetzlicher 

directives 

and 

regulations 

or 

Vorschriften, 

Richtlinien 

und 

agreements  to  which  the  Issuer,  the 

Verordnungen  oder  sonstiger  Verträge, 

Guarantor,  the  Principal  Paying  Agent 

denen sich die Emittentin, die Garantin, 

or  any  Paying  Agent,  as  the  case  may 

die Hauptzahlstelle oder eine  Zahlstelle 

be,  agree  to  be  subject  and  the  Issuer, 

unterworfen  haben.  Die  Emittentin,  die 

the  Guarantor  or,  as  the  case  may  be, 

Garantin,  die  Hauptzahlstelle  bzw.  eine 

the  Principal  Paying  Agent  or 

the 

Zahlstelle  ist  nicht  für  irgendwelche 

Paying Agent,  as  the  case  may  be,  will 

Steuern  oder  Abgaben  gleich  welcher 

not  be  liable  for  any  taxes  or  duties  of 

Art verantwortlich, die aufgrund solcher 

whatever  nature  imposed  or  levied  by 

gesetzlichen  Vorschriften,  Richtlinien 

such  laws,  regulations,  directives  or 

oder  Verordnungen  oder  Verträgen 

agreements, but without prejudice to the 

auferlegt  oder  erhoben  werden.  Dies 

provisions  of  § 6.  No  commission  or 

berührt jedoch nicht die Bestimmungen 

expenses  shall  be  charged 

to 

the 

von § 6. Den Anleihegläubigern werden 

Noteholders 

in 

respect 

of 

such 

keine  Kosten  oder  Gebühren  in  Bezug 

payments. 

auf diese Zahlungen auferlegt. 

(b) 

Zahlungsweise.  Zu  leistende  Zahlungen  auf 

(b)  Manner of payment.  Payments of amounts due 

die  Schuldverschreibungen  erfolgen  in  der 

in  respect  of  the  Notes  shall  be  made  in  the 

Festgelegten Währung.  

Specified Currency. 

(c) 

Erfüllung.  Die  Emittentin  bzw.  die  Garantin 

(c) 

Discharge.  The  Issuer  or,  as  the  case  may  be, 

wird  durch  Leistung  der  Zahlung  an  das 

the  Guarantor  shall  be  discharged  by  payment 

Clearingsystem oder an dessen Order von ihrer 

to, or to the order of, the Clearing System. 

Zahlungspflicht befreit. 

(d) 

Zahltag.  Fällt der Fälligkeitstag einer Zahlung 

(d) 

Payment  Business  Day.  If  the  due  date  for 

in  Bezug  auf  eine  Schuldverschreibung  auf 

payment of any amount in respect of any Note 

einen  Tag,  der  kein  Zahltag  ist,  dann  hat  der 

is  not  a  Payment  Business  Day  then  the 

Anleihegläubiger 

keinen  Anspruch 

auf 

Noteholder  shall  not  be  entitled  to  payment 

Zahlung  vor  dem  nächstfolgenden  Zahltag  am 

until  the  next  such  day  in  the  relevant  place 

jeweiligen  Geschäftsort.  Der Anleihegläubiger 

and  shall  not  be  entitled  to  further  interest  or 

ist  nicht  berechtigt,  weitere  Zinsen  oder 

other payment in respect of such delay. 

sonstige 

Zahlungen 

aufgrund 

dieser 

Verspätung zu verlangen. 

Für  diese  Zwecke  bezeichnet  "Zahltag"  einen 

For  these  purposes,  "Payment  Business  Day" 

Tag  (außer  einem  Samstag  oder  Sonntag),  (i) 

means  a  day  which  is  a  day  (other  than  a 

an dem das Clearingsystem und (ii) das Trans-

Saturday  or  a  Sunday)  on  which  both  (i) the 

European  Automated  Real-time  Gross 

Clearing  System,  and  (ii) the  Trans-European 

settlement  Express  Transfer 

system 

2 

Automated  Real-time  Gross 

settlement 

(TARGET)  geöffnet  sind,  um  Zahlungen 

Express Transfer system 2 (TARGET) are open 

abzuwickeln. 

§ 6 

Besteuerung 

to effect payments. 

§ 6 

Taxation 

Sämtliche 

auf 

die  Schuldverschreibungen 

zu 

All  amounts  to  be  paid  in  respect  of  the  Notes 

zahlenden  Beträge  (einschließlich  sämtlicher  von  der 

(including  all  amounts  to  be  paid  by  the  Guarantor 

Garantin  auf  die  Garantie  zu  zahlender  Beträge) 

under  the  Guarantee)  will  be  paid  free  and  clear  of, 

werden  ohne  Einbehalt  oder  Abzug  von  Steuern, 

and  without  withholding  or  deduction  for,  any  taxes, 

Abgaben,  Festsetzungen  oder  behördlicher  Gebühren 

duties,  assessments  or  governmental  charges  of 

jedweder  Art  geleistet  ("Steuern"),  die  von  den 

whatever nature ("Taxes") imposed, levied, collected, 

33 

Niederlanden,  Luxemburg  bzw.  der  Bundesrepublik 

withheld or assessed by the Netherlands, Luxembourg 

Deutschland  oder  einer  ihrer  Gebietskörperschaften 

or the Federal Republic of Germany (as the case may 

oder  Behörden  oder  sonstigen  Stellen 

in  den 

be)  or  any  political  subdivision  or  any  authority  or 

Niederlanden,  Luxemburg  bzw.  der  Bundesrepublik 

any  other  agency  of  or 

in 

the  Netherlands, 

Deutschland  mit  der  Befugnis  zur  Erhebung  von 

Luxembourg or the Federal Republic of Germany (as 

Steuern  auferlegt,  erhoben,  eingezogen,  einbehalten 

the  case  may  be)  that  has  power  to  tax,  unless  the 

oder  festgesetzt  werden,  sofern  nicht  die  Emittentin 

Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  is  compelled  by  law  to  make 

oder die Garantin kraft Gesetzes oder einer sonstigen 

such  withholding  or  deduction.  If  the  Issuer  or  the 

Rechtsvorschrift  zu  einem  solchen  Einbehalt  oder 

Guarantor  is  required  to  make  such  withholding  or 

Abzug verpflichtet ist. Sofern die Emittentin oder die 

deduction,  the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  (as  the  case 

Garantin  zu  einem  solchen  Einbehalt  oder  Abzug 

may  be)  will  pay  such  additional  amounts  (the 

verpflichtet ist, wird die Emittentin bzw. die Garantin 

"Additional  Amounts")  to  the  Noteholders  as  the 

zusätzliche  Beträge  (die  "Zusätzlichen  Beträge")  an 

Noteholders  would  have 

received 

if  no  such 

die  Anleihegläubiger 

zahlen, 

so 

dass 

die 

withholding  or  deduction  had  been  required,  except 

Anleihegläubiger  die  Beträge  erhalten,  die  sie  ohne 

that  no  such Additional Amounts  will  be  payable  for 

den  betreffenden  Einbehalt  oder  Abzug  erhalten 

any such Taxes in respect of any Note, 

hätten. Solche Zusätzlichen Beträge sind jedoch nicht 

zahlbar  wegen  solcher  Steuern 

in  Bezug  auf 

Schuldverschreibungen, 

(a) 

die  wegen  einer  Verbindung  des  betreffenden 

(a) 

which are to be withheld or deducted by reason 

Anleihegläubigers 

zu  den  Niederlanden, 

of 

the  relevant  Noteholder  having  some 

Luxemburg 

bzw. 

der 

Bundesrepublik 

connection  with  the  Netherlands,  Luxembourg 

Deutschland,  die  nicht  nur  aus  der  bloßen 

or the Federal Republic of Germany other than 

Inhaberschaft 

der 

Schuldverschreibungen 

the mere holding of that Note; or  

besteht,  einzubehalten  oder  abzuziehen  sind; 

oder  

(b) 

deren 

Einbehalt 

oder 

Abzug 

ein 

(b) 

the  withholding  or  deduction  of  which  a 

Anleihegläubiger 

durch  Vorlage 

eines 

Noteholder  would  be  able 

to  avoid  by 

Formulars  oder  einer  Urkunde  und/oder  durch 

presenting  any  form  or  certificate  and/or 

Abgabe einer Nichtansässigkeitserklärung oder 

making  a  declaration  of  non-residence  or 

Inanspruchnahme 

einer 

vergleichbaren 

similar claim for exemption or refund but fails 

Ausnahme 

oder  Geltendmachung 

eines 

to do so; or 

Erstattungsanspruches 

hätte 

vermeiden 

können, aber nicht vermieden hat; oder 

(c) 

die  aufgrund 

(i)  einer  Richtlinie  oder 

(c) 

which are to be withheld or deducted pursuant 

Verordnung 

der 

Europäischen 

Union 

to  (i)  any  European  Union  Directive  or 

betreffend  die  Besteuerung  von  Zinserträgen 

Regulation  concerning  the  taxation  of  interest 

oder 

(ii) 

einer 

zwischenstaatlichen 

income,  or 

(ii)  any 

international 

treaty, 

Vereinbarung, 

eines 

zwischenstaatlichen 

agreement  or  understanding  relating  to  such 

Abkommens  oder  einer  zwischenstaatlichen 

taxation  and  to  which  the  Federal  Republic  of 

Verständigung  über  deren  Besteuerung,  an  der 

Germany or the European  Union is a party, or 

die  Bundesrepublik  Deutschland  oder  die 

(iii)  any  provision  of  law  implementing,  or 

Europäische Union beteiligt ist, oder (iii) einer 

complying  with,  or  introduced  to  conform 

gesetzlichen  Vorschrift,  die  diese  Richtlinie, 

with,  such  Directive,  Regulation, 

treaty, 

Verordnung,  Vereinbarung,  Abkommen  oder 

agreement or understanding; or 

Verständigung 

umsetzt 

oder 

befolgt, 

abzuziehen oder einzubehalten sind; oder 

34 

(d)  wenn die Einbehaltung oder der Abzug ab dem 

(d) 

if  withholding  or  deduction  is  required  to  be 

1. Januar  2021  gemäß  dem  niederländischen 

made  as  of  1 January  2021,  pursuant  to  the 

Quellensteuergesetz  2021  (Wet  bronbelasting 

Dutch  Withholding  Tax  Act  2021 

(Wet 

2021) vorgenommen werden muss. 

bronbelasting 2021). 

§ 7  Vorlegung, Verjährung 

§ 7 

Presentation, Prescription 

(a) 

Vorlegungsfrist.  Die  Vorlegungsfrist  gemäß 

(a) 

Presentation.  The  period  for  presentation  of 

§ 801  Absatz  1  Satz  1  BGB  für  fällige 

Notes due, as established in § 801 paragraph 1 

Schuldverschreibungen  wird  auf  zehn  Jahre 

sentence  1  of 

the  German  Civil  Code 

verkürzt. 

(Bürgerliches  Gesetzbuch),  is  reduced  to  ten 

years. 

(b) 

Verjährungsfrist.  Die  Verjährungsfrist 

für 

(b) 

Prescription.  The  period  for  prescription  for 

innerhalb  der  Vorlegungsfrist  zur  Zahlung 

Notes  presented  for  payment  during 

the 

vorgelegte Schuldverschreibungen beträgt zwei 

presentation  period  shall  be 

two  years 

Jahre  von  dem  Ende  der  betreffenden 

beginning  at 

the  end  of 

the 

relevant 

Vorlegungsfrist an. 

presentation period. 

§ 8  Kündigungsgründe für die Anleihegläubiger 

§ 8 

Events of Default 

(a) 

Kündigungsgründe.  Jeder Anleihegläubiger ist 

(a) 

Events  of  Default.  Each  Noteholder  will  be 

berechtigt, 

alle 

oder 

einzelne 

seiner 

entitled to declare all or some only of its Notes 

Schuldverschreibungen zu kündigen und deren 

due and demand immediate redemption of such 

sofortige  Rückzahlung  zu  ihrem  Festgelegten 

Notes  at  the  Principal  Amount  plus  accrued 

Nennbetrag zuzüglich etwaiger bis zu dem Tag 

interest to but excluding the date of redemption 

der 

Rückzahlung 

(ausschließlich) 

as provided hereinafter, if: 

aufgelaufener Zinsen zu verlangen, falls: 

(i) 

die Emittentin Kapital oder Zinsen oder 

(i) 

the  Issuer  fails  to  pay  principal  or 

eine 

andere 

Zahlung 

auf 

Schuldverschreibungen 

oder 

die 

die 

interest  or  any  other  amount  in  respect 

of  the  Notes  or  the  Guarantor  fails  to 

Garantin  eine  Zahlung  auf  die  Garantie 

pay  any  amount  in  respect  of  the 

nicht innerhalb von 15 Tagen nach dem 

Guarantee  within  15  days  from  the 

betreffenden Fälligkeitstag zahlt; 

relevant due date; 

(ii) 

die  Emittentin  oder  die  Garantin 

(ii) 

the Issuer or the Guarantor fails to duly 

irgendeine andere Verpflichtung aus den 

perform  any  other  obligation  arising 

Schuldverschreibungen 

oder 

der 

from  the  Notes  or  the  Guarantee  and 

Garantie  nicht  ordnungsgemäß  erfüllt 

such default, except  where  such default 

und  die  Unterlassung,  sofern  sie  nicht 

is 

incapable  of 

remedy,  continues 

unheilbar 

ist, 

länger  als  45  Tage 

unremedied for more than 45 days after 

fortdauert, nachdem die Emittentin oder 

the Issuer or the Guarantor (through the 

die  Garantin  (über  die  Hauptzahlstelle) 

Principal  Paying  Agent)  has  received 

hierüber  eine  Benachrichtigung  von 

notice thereof from a Noteholder; 

einem Anleihegläubiger erhalten hat;  

(iii) 

 

(iii) 

 

(A) 

eine  Finanzverbindlichkeit  der 

(A) 

any  Financial  Indebtedness  of 

Emittentin oder der Garantin  bei 

Fälligkeit  oder 

innerhalb  der 

zutreffenden  Nachfrist 

nicht 

erfüllt wird; oder 

the Issuer or the Guarantor is not 

paid  when  due  or  within  any 

applicable  grace  period,  as  the 

case may be; or 

35 

(B) 

eine  Finanzverbindlichkeit  der 

(B) 

any  Financial  Indebtedness  of 

Emittentin  oder  der  Garantin 

aufgrund  des  Vorliegens  einer 

Nichterfüllung 

oder 

eines 

Verzuges  vorzeitig  fällig  gestellt 

oder  anderweitig  vorzeitig  fällig 

wird; oder  

the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  is 

declared 

to  be  or  otherwise 

becomes  due  and  payable  prior 

to  its  specified  maturity  as  a 

result  of  an  event  of  default 

(however described); or 

(C) 

aufgrund  des  Eintritts  eines 

(C) 

any  security  granted  by 

the 

Ereignisses, 

das 

zur 

Durchsetzung  einer  von  der 

Emittentin  oder  der  Garantin  für 

eine 

Finanzverbindlichkeit 

gewährten  Sicherheit  berechtigt, 

eine solche Durchsetzung erklärt 

wird, 

Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  for  any 

Financial 

Indebtedness 

is 

declared  enforceable  upon  the 

occurrence  of  an  event  entitling 

to enforcement, 

wobei  kein Anleihegläubiger  berechtigt 

provided  that  no  Noteholder  will  be 

ist, seine Schuldverschreibungen gemäß 

entitled  to  declare  its  Notes  due  in 

diesem § 8(a)(iii) zu kündigen, falls der 

accordance  with  this  § 8(a)(iii)  if  the 

Gesamtbetrag 

aller 

unter 

die 

aggregate 

amount 

of 

Financial 

vorstehenden  Absätze 

(A)  bis 

(C) 

Indebtedness  falling  within  paragraphs 

fallenden 

Finanzverbindlichkeiten 

(A) 

to 

(C)  above 

is 

less 

than 

EUR 20.000.000 

(oder 

den 

EUR 20,000,000  (or  its  equivalent  in 

entsprechenden Gegenwert in einer oder 

any other currency or currencies); or 

mehreren 

anderen  Währung(en)) 

unterschreitet; oder 

(iv) 

die Emittentin oder die Garantin  

(iv) 

the Issuer or the Guarantor  

(A) 

zahlungsunfähig 

ist  oder 

ihre 

(A) 

is  unable  or  admits  its  inability 

Zahlungsunfähigkeit 

einräumt; 

to  pay  its  debts  as  they  fall  due; 

oder 

or 

(B) 

ihre Zahlungen einstellt; oder 

(B) 

suspends  making  payments  on 

any of its debts; or 

(v) 

ein  zuständiges  Gericht  gegen  die 

(v) 

a  competent  court  opens  insolvency 

Emittentin  oder  die  Garantin  ein 

proceedings  against  the  Issuer  or  the 

Insolvenzverfahren  eröffnet,  das  nicht 

Guarantor which has not been dismissed 

innerhalb  von  60  Tagen  nach  dessen 

or  stayed  within  60  days  after  the 

Eröffnung  aufgehoben  oder  ausgesetzt 

commencement thereof, or the Issuer or 

worden ist, oder die Emittentin oder die 

the  Guarantor 

institutes 

such 

a 

Garantin 

ein 

solches  Verfahren 

proceeding 

or  makes 

a 

general 

beantragt 

oder 

eine 

allgemeine 

arrangement  for  the  benefit  of  all  its 

Vereinbarung  zu  Gunsten  all 

ihrer 

creditors, or 

Gläubiger trifft, oder 

(vi) 

die  Emittentin  oder  die  Garantin  in 

(vi) 

the Issuer or the Guarantor is wound up, 

Liquidation 

tritt,  es  sei  denn,  dies 

unless  this  is  effected  in  connection 

geschieht  im  Zusammenhang  mit  einer 

with  a  merger  or  another  form  of 

Verschmelzung  oder  einer  anderen 

amalgamation with another company or 

Form des Zusammenschlusses mit einer 

in  connection  with  a  restructuring,  and 

36 

anderen 

Gesellschaft 

oder 

im 

the  other  or  the  new  company  assumes 

Zusammenhang  mit einer Umwandlung 

all  obligations  of  the  Issuer  arising 

und  die  andere  oder  neue  Gesellschaft 

under the Notes or the Guarantor arising 

übernimmt alle Verpflichtungen, die die 

under  the  Guarantee,  as  the  case  may 

Emittentin 

aus 

Schuldverschreibungen 

bzw. 

den 

die 

Garantin  aus  der  Garantie  eingegangen 

ist; 

be; 

(vii) 

in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland oder 

(vii)  any  law,  governmental  order,  decree  or 

in den Niederlanden oder in Luxemburg 

enactment  will  gain  recognition  in  the 

ein  Gesetz,  eine  Verordnung  oder 

Federal Republic of Germany or in The 

behördliche 

Anordnung 

Geltung 

Netherlands or in Luxembourg whereby 

erlangt,  durch  welche  die  Emittentin 

the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  is  legally 

oder  die  Garantin  rechtlich  gehindert 

prevented 

from 

performing 

its 

ist, 

Verpflichtungen 

aus 

Schuldverschreibungen 

bzw. 

den 

der 

obligations under the Notes or under the 

Guarantee and this situation is not cured 

Garantie  zu  erfüllen,  und  diese  Lage 

within 90 days; or 

nicht binnen 90 Tagen behoben ist; oder 

(viii)  die  Garantie  mit 

rechtskräftiger 

(viii) 

the Guarantee is determined by the final 

Entscheidung 

eines 

zuständigen 

decision  of  a  competent  court  or  is 

Gerichts 

für  nicht  vollumfänglich 

claimed  by  the  Guarantor  not  to  be  in 

wirksam  erklärt  wird  oder  die  Garantin 

full force. 

einen  Mangel 

der  Wirksamkeit 

behauptet. 

Das  Kündigungsrecht  erlischt, 

falls  der 

The right to declare Notes due will terminate if 

Kündigungsgrund 

vor  Ausübung 

des 

the situation giving rise to it has been resolved 

Kündigungsrechts geheilt wurde. Vorbehaltlich 

before  such  right  is  exercised.  No  event  or 

anwendbaren  zwingenden  Rechts  berechtigen 

circumstance  other  than  an  event  specified  in 

andere  Ereignisse  oder  Umstände  als  die  in 

§ 8(a) shall entitle Noteholders to declare their 

§ 8(a)  genannten  die  Anleihegläubiger  nicht 

Notes  due  and  payable  prior  to  their  stated 

dazu, ihre Schuldverschreibungen vorzeitig zur 

maturity,  save  as  expressly  provided  for  in 

Rückzahlung fällig zu stellen, es sei denn, dies 

these  Terms  and  Conditions  and  subject  to 

ist ausdrücklich in diesen Anleihebedingungen 

applicable mandatory law. 

bestimmt. 

(b)  Quorum.  In  den  Fällen  gemäß  § 8(a)(ii) 

(b)  Quorum.  In  the  events  specified  in  § 8(a)(ii) 

und/oder 

§ 8(a)(iii) 

wird 

eine 

and/or  § 8(a)(iii),  any  notice  declaring  any 

Kündigungserklärung,  sofern  nicht  bei  deren 

Note due shall, unless at the time such notice is 

Eingang  zugleich  einer  der  in Absatz  § 8(a)(i) 

received any of the events specified in § 8(a)(i) 

oder 

§ 8(a)(iv) 

bis 

(viii) 

bezeichneten 

or 

§ 8(a)(iv) 

through 

(viii) 

entitling 

Kündigungsgründe  vorliegt,  erst  wirksam, 

Noteholders  to  declare  their  Notes  due  has 

wenn 

bei 

der 

Hauptzahlstelle 

occurred,  become  effective  only  when  the 

Kündigungserklärungen 

Anleihegläubigern 

im  Nennbetrag 

von 

von 

Principal  Paying  Agent  has  received  such 

default 

notices 

from 

the  Noteholders 

mindestens  10 %  des  Gesamtnennbetrages  der 

representing  at  least  10  per  cent.  of  the 

zu 

diesem  Zeitpunkt 

noch 

insgesamt 

aggregate  principal  amount  of  Notes  then 

ausstehenden 

Schuldverschreibungen 

outstanding. 

eingegangen sind. 

37 

(c) 

Kündigungserklärung.  Eine  Kündigung  der 

(c) 

Notice.  Any  notice  declaring  Notes  due  in 

Schuldverschreibungen  gemäß  § 8(a) 

ist 

accordance with § 8(a) will be made by means 

schriftlich 

in  deutscher  oder  englischer 

of  a  written  declaration  in  German  or  English 

Sprache  gegenüber  der  Hauptzahlstelle  zu 

delivered  by  hand  or  registered  mail  to  the 

erklären  und  persönlich  oder  per  Einschreiben 

specified  office  of  the  Principal  Paying Agent 

an  deren  bezeichnete  Geschäftsstelle  zu 

together with proof that such Noteholder at the 

übermitteln.  Der  Benachrichtigung 

ist  ein 

time  of  such  notice  is  a  holder  of  the  relevant 

Nachweis  beizufügen,  aus  dem  sich  ergibt, 

Notes by means of a certificate of its Custodian 

dass  der  betreffende  Anleihegläubiger  zum 

or in any other appropriate manner. 

Zeitpunkt  der  Abgabe  der  Benachrichtigung 

Inhaber  der  betreffenden  Schuldverschreibung 

ist.  Der  Nachweis 

kann 

durch 

eine 

Bescheinigung der Depotbank oder auf andere 

geeignete Weise erbracht werden. 

(d)  Definitionen. 

(d)  Definitions. 

"Depotbank"  bezeichnet  ein  Bank-  oder 

"Custodian" means any bank or other financial 

sonstiges  Finanzinstitut, 

bei 

dem 

der 

institution  with  which 

the  Noteholder 

Anleihegläubiger  Schuldverschreibungen 

in 

maintains a securities account in respect of any 

seinem  Wertpapierdepotkonto  verwahren  lässt 

Notes  and  having  an  account  maintained  with 

und das ein Konto bei dem Clearingsystem hat, 

the Clearing System and includes the  Clearing 

und schließt das Clearingsystem ein. 

System.  

"Finanzverbindlichkeit" 

bezeichnet 

jede 

"Financial  Indebtedness"  means  any  present 

gegenwärtige 

oder 

zukünftige 

or  future  indebtedness  for  or  in  respect  of 

Zahlungsverpflichtung  im  Zusammenhang  mit 

monies borrowed or raised.  

einer Kredit- oder sonstigen Geldaufnahme. 

§ 9  Hauptzahlstelle, Zahlstelle(n)  

§ 9 

Principal Paying Agent, Paying Agent(s)  

(a) 

Bestellung;  bezeichnete  Geschäftsstelle.  Die 

(a) 

Appointment;  specified  office.  The  Principal 

Hauptzahlstelle 

ist  nachstehend  mit  der 

Paying  Agent  and  its  initial  specified  offices 

benannten 

anfänglichen 

Geschäftsstelle 

are as follows: 

aufgeführt: 

Hauptzahlstelle: 

Principal Paying Agent: 

BNP Paribas Securities Services S.C.A. 

BNP Paribas Securities Services S.C.A. 

Zweigniederlassung Frankfurt 

Europa Allee 12 

60327 Frankfurt am Main 

Deutschland 

Zweigniederlassung Frankfurt 

Europa Allee 12 

60327 Frankfurt am Main 

Germany 

(b) 

Änderung 

der 

Bestellung 

oder 

(b) 

Variation  or  termination  of  appointment.  The 

Abberufung.  Die  Emittentin  behält  sich  das 

Issuer reserves the right at any time to appoint 

Recht  vor,  jederzeit  zusätzliche  Zahlstellen 

additional  paying  agents  (together  with  the 

(gemeinsam  mit  der  Hauptzahlstelle,  die 

Principal  Paying  Agent,  the  "Paying  Agents" 

"Zahlstellen"  und  jede  eine  "Zahlstelle")  zu 

and each a "Paying Agent").  

benennen.  

Auf 

keinen 

Fall 

dürfen 

sich 

die 

In  no  event  will  the  specified  office  of  any 

Geschäftsräume  einer  Zahlstelle  innerhalb  der 

Paying Agent be within the United States. 

Vereinigten Staaten befinden. 

38 

Die  Emittentin  behält  sich  ferner  das  Recht 

The Issuer further reserves the right at any time 

vor, die Ernennung der Hauptzahlstelle und der 

to  vary  or  terminate  the  appointment  of  the 

Zahlstellen  jederzeit  anders  zu  regeln  oder  zu 

Principal Paying Agent and the Paying Agent. 

beenden. 

Die  Emittentin  wird 

sicherstellen,  dass 

The  Issuer  will  at  all  times  maintain  (i) a 

jederzeit  (i) eine  Hauptzahlstelle  und  (ii)  so 

Principal  Paying Agent  and  (ii)  so  long  as  the 

lange  die  Schuldverschreibungen  an  einer 

Notes are listed on a stock exchange, a Paying 

Börse notiert werden, eine Zahlstelle mit einer 

Agent  with  a  specified  office  in  such  city  as 

benannten  Geschäftsstelle  an  dem  von  der 

may  be  required  by  the  rules  of  the  relevant 

betreffenden  Börse  vorgeschriebenen  Ort 

stock  exchange.  The  Principal  Paying  Agent 

bestimmt  ist.  Die  Hauptzahlstelle  und  etwaige 

and  any  Paying Agent  reserve  the  right  at  any 

Zahlstellen  behalten  sich  das  Recht  vor, 

time 

to  change 

their  respective  specified 

jederzeit  anstelle 

ihrer 

jeweils  benannten 

offices  to  some  other  specified  office  in  the 

Geschäftsstelle  eine  andere  Geschäftsstelle  in 

same  city.  Notice  of  all  changes  in  the 

derselben 

Stadt 

zu 

bestimmen. 

identities  or  specified  offices  of  the  Principal 

Bekanntmachungen 

hinsichtlich 

aller 

Paying  Agent  and  any  Paying  Agent  will  be 

Veränderungen 

im  Hinblick 

auf 

die 

given  promptly  by 

the 

Issuer 

to 

the 

Hauptzahlstelle 

und 

etwaige  Zahlstellen 

Noteholders in accordance with § 11. 

erfolgen  unverzüglich  durch  die  Emittentin 

gemäß § 11. 

(c) 

Erfüllungsgehilfen 

der 

Emittentin.  Die 

(c) 

Agents  of  the  Issuer.  The  Principal  Paying 

Hauptzahlstelle  und  die  Zahlstellen  handeln 

Agent  and  the  Paying  Agents  act  solely  as 

ausschließlich  als  Beauftragte  der  Emittentin 

agents  of  the  Issuer  and  do  not  assume  any 

und  übernehmen  keinerlei  Verpflichtungen 

obligations  towards  or  relationship  of  agency 

gegenüber dem Anleihegläubiger; es wird kein 

or trust for the Noteholder. 

Auftrags-  oder  Treuhandverhältnis  zwischen 

ihnen und dem Anleihegläubiger begründet. 

§ 10  Schuldnerersetzung 

(a) 

Ersetzung. 

§ 10  Substitution 

(a) 

Substitution. 

Die  Emittentin  ist  jederzeit  berechtigt,  ohne 

The  Issuer  may  at  any  time,  without  the 

Zustimmung 

der  Anleihegläubiger, 

die 

consent  of  the  Noteholders,  substitute  for  the 

Garantin  oder  eine  andere  Gesellschaft,  die 

Issuer  either  the  Guarantor  or  any  other 

direkt  oder 

indirekt  von  der  Garantin 

company  which 

is  directly  or 

indirectly 

kontrolliert  wird,  als  neue  Emittentin  für  alle 

controlled by the Guarantor as new issuer (the 

sich  aus  oder  im  Zusammenhang  mit  den 

"New  Issuer")  in  respect  of  all  obligations 

Schuldverschreibungen 

ergebenden 

arising  under  or  in  connection  with  the  Notes 

Verpflichtungen 

mit 

schuldbefreiender 

with  the  effect  of  releasing  the  Issuer  of  all 

Wirkung  für  die  Emittentin  an  die  Stelle  der 

such obligations, if: 

Emittentin zu setzen (die "Neue Emittentin"), 

sofern 

(i) 

die  Neue 

Emittentin 

sämtliche 

(i) 

the  New  Issuer  assumes  any  and  all 

Verpflichtungen der Emittentin aus oder 

obligations  of  the  Issuer  arising  under 

im 

Zusammenhang 

mit 

den 

or  in  connection  with  the  Notes  and,  if 

Schuldverschreibungen übernimmt und, 

service  of  process  vis-à-vis  the  New 

sofern  eine  Zustellung  an  die  Neue 

Issuer would have to be effected outside 

Emittentin 

außerhalb 

der 

the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany, 

39 

Bundesrepublik  Deutschland  erfolgen 

appoints  a  process  agent  within  the 

müsste, 

einen 

Federal Republic of Germany; 

Zustellungsbevollmächtigten 

in 

der 

Bundesrepublik Deutschland bestellt; 

(ii) 

die Emittentin und die Neue  Emittentin 

(ii) 

the  Issuer  and  the  New  Issuer  have 

sämtliche  für  die  Schuldnerersetzung 

obtained 

all 

authorisations 

and 

und  die  Erfüllung  der  Verpflichtungen 

approvals necessary  for the substitution 

aus  oder  im  Zusammenhang  mit  den 

and  the  fulfilment  of  the  obligations 

Schuldverschreibungen  erforderlichen 

arising  under  or  in  connection  with  the 

Genehmigungen erhalten haben; 

Notes; 

(iii) 

die  Neue  Emittentin  in  der  Lage  ist, 

(iii) 

the New Issuer is in the position to pay 

sämtliche  zur  Erfüllung  der  aufgrund 

to 

the  Clearing  System  or 

to 

the 

der Schuldverschreibungen bestehenden 

Principal Paying Agent in the Specified 

Zahlungsverpflichtungen  erforderlichen 

Currency  and  without  deducting  or 

Beträge in der Festgelegten Währung an 

withholding any taxes or other duties of 

das 

Clearingsystem 

oder 

die 

whatever  nature  imposed,  levied  or 

Hauptzahlstelle  zu  zahlen,  und  zwar 

deducted  by  the  country  (or  countries) 

ohne Abzug oder Einbehalt von Steuern 

in  which 

the  New  Issuer  has 

its 

oder  sonstigen  Abgaben  jedweder  Art, 

domicile  or  tax  residence  all  amounts 

die  von  dem  Land  (oder  den  Ländern), 

required  for  the  performance  of  the 

in  dem  (in  denen)  die  Neue  Emittentin 

payment  obligations  arising  from  or  in 

ihren Sitz oder Steuersitz hat, auferlegt, 

connection with the Notes; and 

erhoben oder eingezogen werden; und 

(iv) 

die Garantin (außer in dem Fall, dass sie 

(iv) 

the  Guarantor  (except  in  the  case  that 

selbst 

die  Neue  Emittentin 

ist) 

the  Guarantor  itself  is  the  New  Issuer) 

unbedingt  und  unwiderruflich  die 

irrevocably 

and 

unconditionally 

Verpflichtungen  der  Neuen  Emittentin 

guarantees such obligations of the New 

aus  den  Schuldverschreibungen  zu 

Issuer  under  the  Notes  on  terms  which 

Bedingungen 

garantiert, 

sicherstellen, 

dass 

die 

jeder 

ensure that each Noteholder will be put 

in  an  economic  position  that  is  at  least 

Anleihegläubiger 

wirtschaftlich 

as favourable as that which would have 

mindestens so gestellt wird, wie er ohne 

existed if the substitution had not taken 

die Ersetzung stehen würde. 

place. 

(b) 

Bezugnahmen. 

(b) 

References. 

Im  Fall  einer  Schuldnerersetzung  gemäß 

In  the  event  of  a  substitution  pursuant  to 

§ 10(a)  gilt 

jede  Bezugnahme 

in  diesen 

§ 10(a),  any  reference  in  these  Terms  and 

Anleihebedingungen  auf  die  Emittentin  als 

Conditions to the Issuer shall be a reference to 

eine solche auf die Neue Emittentin. 

the New Issuer. 

Im  Fall  einer  Schuldnerersetzung  gilt  jede 

In  the  event  of  a  substitution  any  reference  to 

Bezugnahme  auf  die  Niederlande  als  eine 

the Netherlands shall be a reference to the New 

solche  auf  den  Staat,  in  welchem  die  Neue 

Issuer's country of domicile for tax purposes. 

Emittentin steuerlich ansässig ist. 

(c) 

Bekanntmachung  und  Wirksamwerden  der 

(c) 

Notice 

and 

effectiveness 

of 

Ersetzung.  Die  Ersetzung  der  Emittentin  ist 

substitution.  Notice  of  any  substitution  of  the 

gemäß  § 11  bekanntzumachen.  Mit  der 

Issuer  shall  be  given  by  notice  in  accordance 

Bekanntmachung  der  Ersetzung  wird  die 

with  § 11.  Upon 

such  publication, 

the 

40 

Ersetzung  wirksam  und  die  Emittentin  und  im 

substitution  shall  become  effective,  and  the 

Fall  einer  wiederholten  Anwendung  dieses 

Issuer  and 

in 

the  event  of  a  repeated 

§ 10  jede  frühere  Neue  Emittentin  von  ihren 

application  of  this  § 10,  any  previous  New 

sämtlichen 

Verpflichtungen 

aus 

den 

Issuer  shall  be  discharged  from  any  and  all 

Schuldverschreibungen  frei.  Im  Fall  einer 

obligations under the Notes. In the case of such 

solchen  Schuldnerersetzung  wird  (werden)  die 

substitution,  the  stock  exchange(s),  if  any,  on 

Wertpapierbörse(n)  informiert,  an  der  (denen) 

which the Notes are then listed will be notified. 

die Schuldverschreibungen dann notiert sind. 

§ 11  Bekanntmachungen 

§ 11  Notices 

(a) 

Veröffentlichungen.  Alle  Bekanntmachungen, 

(a) 

Publications.  All  notices  regarding  the  Notes 

die  die  Schuldverschreibungen  betreffen, 

will  be  published  (so  long  as  the  Notes  are 

werden (solange die Schuldverschreibungen an 

listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange) on 

der Luxemburger Wertpapierbörse notiert sind) 

the  website  of 

the  Luxembourg  Stock 

auf  der  Internet-Seite  der  Luxemburger  Börse 

Exchange  on  www.bourse.lu.  Any  notice  will 

unter  www.bourse.lu  veröffentlicht. 

Jede 

become  effective  for  all  purposes  on  the  date 

Mitteilung 

gilt 

am  Tag 

der 

ersten 

of the first such publication. 

Veröffentlichung als wirksam erfolgt. 

(b)  Mitteilungen  an  das  Clearingsystem.  Solange 

(b) 

Notification  to  Clearing  System.  So  long  as 

Schuldverschreibungen  an  der  Luxemburger 

any Notes are listed on the Luxembourg Stock 

Börse  notiert  sind,  findet  § 11(a) Anwendung. 

Exchange,  § 11(a)  shall  apply.  If  the  Rules  of 

Soweit die Regeln der Luxemburger Börse dies 

the  Luxembourg  Stock  Exchange  so  permit, 

zulassen, 

kann 

die 

Emittentin 

eine 

the Issuer may deliver the relevant notice to the 

Veröffentlichung  nach  § 11(a)  durch  eine 

Clearing  System  for  communication  by  the 

Mitteilung 

an 

das  Clearingsystem 

zur 

Clearing System to the  Noteholders, in lieu of 

Weiterleitung 

an 

die  Anleihegläubiger 

publication  as  set  forth  in  § 11(a)  above;  any 

ersetzen;  jede  derartige  Mitteilung  gilt  am 

such  notice  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been 

fünften  Tag  nach  dem  Tag  der  Mitteilung  an 

validly  given  on  the  fifth  day  after  the  day  on 

das  Clearingsystem  als  den Anleihegläubigern 

which the said notice was given to the Clearing 

mitgeteilt. 

(c)  Mitteilungen 

Anleihegläubigers.  Mitteilungen, 

die 

System. 

des 

von 

(c) 

Notices  by  a  Noteholder.  Notices  to  be  given 

by  any  Noteholder  shall  be  made  in  written 

einem  Anleihegläubiger  gemacht  werden, 

form 

together  with  an  evidence  of 

the 

müssen schriftlich erfolgen und zusammen mit 

Noteholder's  entitlement  in  accordance  with 

dem  Nachweis  seiner  Inhaberschaft  gemäß 

§ 14 (c)(i) to the Principal Paying Agent. Such 

§ 14(c)(i)  an  die  Hauptzahlstelle  geleitet 

notice  may  be  given  through  the  Clearing 

werden.  Eine  solche  Mitteilung  kann  über  das 

System in such manner as the Principal Paying 

Clearingsystem  in  der  von  der  Hauptzahlstelle 

Agent  and  the  Clearing  System  may  approve 

und  dem  Clearingsystem  dafür  vorgesehenen 

for such purpose. 

Weise erfolgen. 

§ 12  Begebung weiterer Schuldverschreibungen 

§ 12  Further Issues 

Die  Emittentin  behält  sich  das  Recht  vor,  ohne 

The  Issuer  reserves  the  right  from  time  to  time, 

Zustimmung 

der 

Anleihegläubiger 

weitere 

without  the  consent  of  the  Noteholders  to  issue 

Schuldverschreibungen  mit  gleicher  Ausstattung 

additional notes with identical terms and conditions as 

(gegebenenfalls  mit  Ausnahme  des  Tags  der 

the Notes in all respects (or in all respects except  for 

Begebung,  des  Verzinsungsbeginns  und/oder  des 

the  date  of  issue,  the  interest  commencement  date 

Ausgabepreises) 

wie 

die 

vorliegenden 

and/or  the  issue  price)  so  as  to  be  consolidated  and 

Schuldverschreibungen  zu  begeben,  so  dass  sie  mit 

form  a  single  series  with  such  Notes.  The  term 

41 

diesen  eine  einheitliche  Serie  bilden.  Der  Begriff 

"Notes"  shall,  in  the  event  of  such  further  issue,  also 

"Schuldverschreibungen"  umfasst 

im  Fall  einer 

comprise such further notes. 

solchen  weiteren  Begebung  auch  solche  zusätzlich 

begebenen Schuldverschreibungen. 

§ 13  Änderung 

der 

Anleihebedingungen; 

§ 13  Amendments  to  the  Terms  and  Conditions; 

Gemeinsamer  Vertreter,  Änderung  der 

Joint  Representative,  Amendments  to  the 

Garantie 

Guarantee 

(a) 

Änderung 

der 

Anleihebedingungen.  Die 

(a) 

Amendment of the Terms and Conditions.  The 

Emittentin  kann  die  Anleihebedingungen  mit 

Issuer  may  amend  the  Terms  and  Conditions 

Zustimmung  aufgrund  Mehrheitsbeschlusses 

with the consent of a majority resolution of the 

der  Anleihegläubiger  nach  Maßgabe  der 

Noteholders  pursuant  to  §§ 5  et  seq.  of  the 

§§ 5 ff.  SchVG  ändern.  Eine  Änderung  der 

SchVG.  There  will  be  no  amendment  of  the 

Anleihebedingungen  ohne  Zustimmung  der 

Terms  and  Conditions  without  the  Issuer's 

Emittentin scheidet aus. 

consent. 

Die  Anleihegläubiger  können 

insbesondere 

In  particular,  the  Noteholders  may  consent  to 

einer  Änderung  wesentlicher 

Inhalte  der 

amendments  which  materially  change 

the 

Anleihebedingungen,  einschließlich  der  in  § 5 

substance  of 

the  Terms  and  Conditions, 

Absatz 3  SchVG  vorgesehenen  Maßnahmen 

including such measures as provided for under 

mit  Ausnahme  der  Ersetzung  der  Emittentin, 

§ 5(3)  of 

the  SchVG,  but  excluding  a 

die in § 10 abschließend geregelt ist, mit den in 

substitution of the Issuer,  which is exclusively 

dem 

nachstehenden 

§ 13(b) 

genannten 

subject to the provisions in § 10, by resolutions 

Mehrheiten  zustimmen.  Ein  ordnungsgemäß 

passed  by  such  majority  of  the  votes  of  the 

gefasster  Mehrheitsbeschluss 

ist 

für  alle 

Noteholders  as  stated  under  § 13(b)  below.  A 

Anleihegläubiger verbindlich. 

duly passed majority resolution will be binding 

upon all Noteholders. 

(b)  Mehrheitserfordernisse.  Vorbehaltlich 

des 

(b)  Majority  requirements.  Except  as  provided by 

nachstehenden  Satzes  und  der  Erreichung  der 

the  following  sentence  and  provided  that  the 

erforderlichen  Beschlussfähigkeit,  beschließen 

quorum  requirements  are  being  met, 

the 

die  Anleihegläubiger  mit  der  einfachen 

Noteholders  may  pass  resolutions  by  simple 

Mehrheit 

der 

an 

der  Abstimmung 

majority  of  the  voting  rights  participating  in 

teilnehmenden Stimmrechte. Beschlüsse, durch 

the  vote.  Resolutions  which  materially  change 

welche 

der  wesentliche 

Inhalt 

der 

the  substance  of  the  Terms  and  Conditions,  in 

Anleihebedingungen, 

insbesondere 

in  den 

particular  in  the  cases  of  § 5(3)  numbers  1 

Fällen  des  § 5  Absatz 3  Nummer 1  bis  9 

through  9  of  the  SchVG,  may  only  be  passed 

SchVG,  geändert  wird,  bedürfen  zu  ihrer 

by  a  majority  of  at  least  75 per  cent.  of  the 

Wirksamkeit  einer  Mehrheit  von  mindestens 

voting  rights  participating  in  the  vote  (a 

75 %  der  an  der  Abstimmung  teilnehmenden 

"Qualified  Majority").  The  voting  right  is 

Stimmrechte  (eine  "Qualifizierte  Mehrheit"). 

suspended as long as any Notes are attributable 

Das 

Stimmrecht 

ruht, 

solange 

die 

to the Issuer or any of its affiliates (within the 

Schuldverschreibungen  der  Emittentin  oder 

meaning  of  § 271(2)  of 

the  German 

einem  mit 

ihr  verbundenen  Unternehmen 

Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch)) or are 

(§ 271  Absatz  2  HGB)  zustehen  oder  für 

being held for the account of the Issuer or any 

Rechnung  der  Emittentin  oder  eines  mit  ihr 

of its affiliates. 

verbundenen Unternehmens gehalten werden. 

(c) 

Beschlüsse.  Beschlüsse  der  Anleihegläubiger 

(c) 

Resolutions.  Resolutions  of  the  Noteholders 

werden 

entweder 

in 

einer 

will  be  made  either  in  a  Noteholders'  meeting 

Gläubigerversammlung nach § 13(c)(i) oder im 

in accordance with § 13(c)(i) or by means of a 

42 

Wege  der  Abstimmung  ohne  Versammlung 

vote  without  a  meeting  (Abstimmung  ohne 

nach  § 13(c)(ii)  getroffen,  die  von  der 

Versammlung)  in  accordance  with  § 13(c)(ii), 

Emittentin  oder  einem  gemeinsamen  Vertreter 

in either case convened by the Issuer or a joint 

einberufen  wird.  Anleihegläubiger,  deren 

representative, 

if  any.  Pursuant 

to  § 9(1) 

Schuldverschreibungen  zusammen  5 %  des 

sentence 2 of the SchVG, Noteholders holding 

jeweils  ausstehenden  Gesamtnennbetrags  der 

Notes in the total amount of  5 per cent. of the 

Schuldverschreibungen 

erreichen, 

können 

outstanding principal amount of the Notes may 

gemäß § 9 Absatz 1 S. 2 SchVG schriftlich die 

in  writing  request  to  convene  a  Noteholders' 

Einberufung 

Anleihegläubigerversammlung 

einer 

oder 

meeting  or  vote  without  a  meeting  for  any  of 

the  reasons  permitted  pursuant 

to  § 9(1) 

Abstimmung  ohne  Versammlung  mit  einer 

sentence 2 of the SchVG. 

gemäß  § 9  Absatz  1  S.  2  SchVG  zulässigen 

Begründung verlangen. 

(i) 

Beschlüsse  der  Anleihegläubiger 

im 

(i) 

Resolutions  of  the  Noteholders  in  a 

Rahmen  einer  Gläubigerversammlung 

Noteholders'  meeting  will  be  made  in 

werden  nach  §§ 9  ff.  SchVG  getroffen. 

accordance  with  § 9  et  seq.  of  the 

Die 

Einberufung 

Gläubigerversammlung 

regelt 

weiteren 

Einzelheiten 

der 

die 

der 

SchVG.  The  convening  notice  of  a 

Noteholders'  meeting  will  provide  the 

further details relating to the resolutions 

Beschlussfassung und der Abstimmung. 

and  the  voting  procedure.  The  subject 

Mit 

der 

Einberufung 

der 

matter  of  the  vote  as  well  as  the 

Gläubigerversammlung  werden  in  der 

proposed  resolutions  will  be  notified  to 

Tagesordnung 

Beschlussgegenstände 

sowie 

die 

die 

Vorschläge  zur  Beschlussfassung  den 

Anleihegläubigern bekannt gegeben.  

Noteholders 

in 

the  agenda  of 

the 

meeting.  

(ii) 

Beschlüsse  der  Anleihegläubiger 

im 

(ii) 

Resolutions  of 

the  Noteholders  by 

Wege 

der 

Abstimmung 

ohne 

means  of  a  voting  not  requiring  a 

Versammlung werden nach § 18 SchVG 

physical  meeting  (Abstimmung  ohne 

getroffen.  Die  Aufforderung 

Stimmabgabe 

durch 

zur 

den 

Versammlung)  will  be  made 

in 

accordance  § 18  of  the  SchVG.  The 

Abstimmungsleiter  regelt  die  weiteren 

request  for  voting  as  submitted  by  the 

Einzelheiten  der  Beschlussfassung  und 

chairman 

(Abstimmungsleiter)  will 

der Abstimmung. Mit der Aufforderung 

provide  the  further  details  relating  to 

zur 

Stimmabgabe 

werden 

Beschlussgegenstände 

sowie 

die 

die 

the 

resolutions 

and 

the 

voting 

procedure.  The  subject  matter  of  the 

Vorschläge  zur  Beschlussfassung  den 

vote as well as the proposed resolutions 

Anleihegläubigern bekannt gegeben. 

will be notified to Noteholders together 

with the request for voting. 

(d) 

Zweite  Gläubigerversammlung.  Wird 

die 

(d) 

Second 

noteholders'  meeting.  If 

it 

is 

Beschlussfähigkeit  bei  der  Abstimmung  ohne 

ascertained  that  no  quorum  exists  for  the  vote 

Versammlung 

nach 

§ 13(c)(ii) 

nicht 

without  meeting  pursuant  to  § 13(c)(ii),  the 

festgestellt,  kann  der  Abstimmungsleiter  eine 

chairman  (Abstimmungsleiter)  may  convene  a 

Gläubigerversammlung  einberufen,  welche  als 

meeting, which shall be deemed to be a second 

zweite  Gläubigerversammlung  im  Sinne  des 

meeting  within 

the  meaning  of  § 15(3) 

§ 15 Absatz 3 Satz 3 SchVG gilt. 

sentence 3 of the SchVG. 

(e) 

Anmeldung.  Die Stimmrechtsausübung ist von 

(e) 

Registration.  The  exercise  of  voting  rights  is 

einer 

vorherigen 

Anmeldung 

der 

subject  to  the  registration  of  the  Noteholders. 

43 

Anleihegläubiger  abhängig.  Die  Anmeldung 

The  registration  must  be  received  at  the 

muss  bis 

zum  dritten  Tag  vor  der 

address stated in the request for voting no later 

Gläubigerversammlung 

im 

Falle 

einer 

than  the  third  day  prior  to  the  meeting  in  the 

Gläubigerversammlung  (wie  in  § 13(c)(i)  oder 

case of a Noteholders' meeting (as described in 

§ 13(d) beschrieben) bzw. vor dem Beginn des 

§ 13(c)(i)  or  § 13(d))  or  the  beginning  of  the 

Abstimmungszeitraums 

im 

Falle 

einer 

voting  period  in  the  case  of  voting  not 

Abstimmung  ohne  Versammlung 

(wie 

in 

requiring  a  physical  meeting  (as  described  in 

§ 13(c)(ii)  beschrieben)  unter  der 

in  der 

§ 13(c)(ii)), as the case may  be. As part of the 

Aufforderung  zur  Stimmabgabe  angegebenen 

registration,  Noteholders  must  demonstrate 

Anschrift 

zugehen.  Zusammen  mit  der 

their  eligibility  to  participate  in  the  vote  by 

Anmeldung  müssen  Anleihegläubiger  den 

means  of  a  special  confirmation  of  their 

Nachweis ihrer Berechtigung zur Teilnahme an 

respective  custodian  bank  hereof  in  text  form 

der  Abstimmung  durch 

eine  besondere 

and by submission of a blocking instruction by 

Bescheinigung  ihrer  Depotbank  in  Textform 

the  custodian  bank  stating  that  the  relevant 

und  die  Vorlage  eines  Sperrvermerks  der 

Notes  are  not  transferable  from  and  including 

Depotbank  erbringen,  aus  dem  hervorgeht, 

the  day  such  registration  has  been  sent  until 

dass die relevanten Schuldverschreibungen für 

and including the stated end  of the  meeting or 

den  Zeitraum  vom  Tag  der  Absendung  der 

day the voting period ends, as the case may be. 

Anmeldung 

(einschließlich)  bis  zu  dem 

angegebenen 

Ende 

der  Versammlung 

(einschließlich) 

bzw. 

dem  Ende 

des 

Abstimmungszeitraums  (einschließlich)  nicht 

übertragen werden können. 

(f) 

Gemeinsamer  Vertreter.  Die  Anleihegläubiger 

(f) 

Joint  representative.  The  Noteholders  may  by 

können 

durch  Mehrheitsbeschluss 

die 

majority 

resolution 

provide 

for 

the 

Bestellung 

und 

Abberufung 

eines 

appointment 

or 

dismissal 

of 

a 

joint 

gemeinsamen  Vertreters,  die  Aufgaben  und 

representative,  the  duties  and  responsibilities 

Befugnisse  des  gemeinsamen  Vertreters,  die 

and the powers of such joint representative, the 

Übertragung von Rechten der Anleihegläubiger 

transfer of the rights of the Noteholders to the 

auf  den  gemeinsamen  Vertreter  und  eine 

joint representative and a limitation of liability 

Beschränkung  der  Haftung  des  gemeinsamen 

of  the  joint  representative.  Appointment  of  a 

Vertreters  bestimmen.  Die  Bestellung  eines 

joint  representative  may  only  be  passed  by  a 

gemeinsamen 

Vertreters 

bedarf 

einer 

Qualified  Majority  if  such  joint  representative 

Qualifizierten  Mehrheit,  wenn  er  ermächtigt 

is  to  be  authorised  to  consent  to  a  material 

wird, 

wesentlichen 

Änderungen 

der 

change  in  the  substance  of  the  Terms  and 

Anleihebedingungen 

gemäß 

§ 13(a) 

Conditions in accordance with § 13(a) hereof. 

zuzustimmen. 

(g) 

Bekanntmachungen.  Bekanntmachungen 

(g) 

Notices.  Any notices concerning this § 13 will 

betreffend  diesen  § 13  erfolgen  gemäß  den 

be  made  in  accordance  with  § 5  et  seq.  of  the 

§§ 5ff. SchVG sowie nach § 11. 

SchVG and § 11. 

(h)   Änderung 

der 

Garantie.  Die 

oben 

(h)   Amendments to the Guarantee.  The provisions 

aufgeführten 

auf 

die  Änderung 

der 

set  out  above  applicable  to  the  amendment  of 

Anleihebedingungen 

anwendbaren 

the  Terms  and  Conditions  shall  apply  mutatis 

Bestimmungen  finden  sinngemäß  auf  die 

mutandis to the Guarantee. 

Bestimmungen der Garantie Anwendung. 

(i) 

Zuständiges  Gericht.  Für  Entscheidungen 

(i) 

Competent 

court.  The 

local 

court 

gemäß  § 9  Absatz  2,  § 13  Absatz  3  und  § 18 

(Amtsgericht)  of  Frankfurt  am  Main  will  have 

Absatz  2  SchVG  ist  gemäß  § 9  Absatz  3 

jurisdiction  for  all  judgments  pursuant  to 

44 

SchVG  das  Amtsgericht  Frankfurt  am  Main 

§ 9(2),  § 13(3)  and  § 18(2)  SchVG 

in 

zuständig.  Für  Entscheidungen  über  die 

accordance  with  § 9(3)  SchVG.  The  regional 

Anfechtung 

von 

Beschlüssen 

der 

court  (Landgericht)  Frankfurt  am  Main  will 

Anleihegläubiger  ist  gemäß  § 20  Absatz  3 

have  exclusive  jurisdiction  for  all  judgments 

SchVG  das  Landgericht  Frankfurt  am  Main 

over  contested  resolutions  by  Noteholders  in 

ausschließlich zuständig. 

accordance with § 20(3) SchVG. 

§ 14  Anwendbares  Recht,  Erfüllungsort  und 

§ 14  Applicable  Law,  Place  of  Performance  and 

Gerichtsstand  

Jurisdiction 

(a) 

Geltendes  Recht;  Erfüllungsort.  Form  und 

(a) 

Applicable  law;  place  of  performance.  The 

Inhalt  der  Schuldverschreibungen  sowie  alle 

form and content of the Notes as well as all the 

sich  daraus  ergebenden  Rechte  und  Pflichten 

rights  and  duties  arising 

therefrom  are 

bestimmen sich ausschließlich nach dem Recht 

governed  exclusively  by  the  laws  of  the 

der Bundesrepublik Deutschland. Erfüllungsort 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany.  Place  of 

ist Frankfurt am Main. 

performance is Frankfurt am Main. 

(b)  Gerichtsstand.  Nicht-ausschließlicher 

Ge-

(b) 

Jurisdiction.  Non-exclusive court of venue for 

richtsstand  für  alle  sich  aus  den  in  diesen 

all  litigation  with  the  Issuer  arising  from  the 

Anleihebedingungen 

Rechtsverhältnissen 

geregelten 

ergebenden 

Rechtsstreitigkeiten  mit  der  Emittentin 

ist 

Frankfurt am Main. 

legal  relations  established  in  these  Terms  and 

Conditions is Frankfurt am Main. 

Dies  gilt  nur  vorbehaltlich  eines  zwingenden 

This is subject to any exclusive court of venue 

Gerichtsstandes 

für 

besondere 

for  specific  legal  proceedings  in  connection 

Rechtsstreitigkeiten  im  Zusammenhang  mit 

with  the  German  Act  on  Issues  of  Debt 

dem  Gesetz  über  Schuldverschreibungen  aus 

Securities (Gesetz über Schuldverschreibungen 

Gesamtemissionen 

aus 

Gesamtemissionen) 

(Schuldverschreibungsgesetz  –  SchVG) 

in 

(Schuldverschreibungsgesetz  –  SchVG),  as 

seiner 

jeweiligen  gültigen  Fassung 

(das 

amended from time to time (the "SchVG"). 

"SchVG"). 

(c) 

Gerichtliche 

Geltendmachung.  Jeder 

(c) 

Enforcement.  Any  Noteholder  may  in  any 

Anleihegläubiger  kann  in  Rechtsstreitigkeiten 

proceedings  against  the  Issuer  protect  and 

gegen  die  Emittentin  im  eigenen  Namen  seine 

enforce in its own name its rights arising under 

Rechte 

aus 

den 

ihm 

zustehenden 

its  Notes  by 

submitting 

the 

following 

Schuldverschreibungen  geltend  machen  unter 

documents:  (i)  a  certificate  issued  by  its 

Vorlage  der  folgenden  Dokumente:  (i)  einer 

Custodian  (A)  stating  the  full  name  and 

Bescheinigung  seiner  Depotbank,  die  (A)  den 

address  of  the  Noteholder,  (B)  specifying  an 

vollen  Namen  und  die  volle  Anschrift  des 

aggregate  principal  amount  of  Notes  credited 

Anleihegläubigers 

bezeichnet, 

(B) 

den 

on 

the  date  of  such  certificate 

to  such 

Gesamtnennbetrag  der  Schuldverschreibungen 

Noteholder's  securities  account  maintained 

angibt, 

die 

am  Ausstellungstag 

dieser 

with  such  Custodian  and  (C)  confirming  that 

Bescheinigung  dem  bei  dieser  Depotbank 

the Custodian has given a written notice to the 

bestehenden  Depot  dieses  Anleihegläubigers 

Clearing  System  as  well  as  to  the  Principal 

gutgeschrieben sind, und (C) bestätigt, dass die 

Paying  Agent  containing 

the 

information 

Depotbank  dem  Clearingsystem  und  der 

pursuant 

to 

(A)  and 

(B)  and  bearing 

Hauptzahlstelle  eine  schriftliche  Mitteilung 

acknowledgements of the Clearing System and 

zugeleitet hat, die die Angaben gemäß (A) und 

the relevant Clearing System  accountholder as 

(B)  enthält  und  Bestätigungsvermerke  des 

well as (ii) a copy of the Global Note certified 

Clearingsystems 

sowie 

des 

jeweiligen 

by  a  duly  authorised  officer  of  the  Clearing 

45 

Clearingsystem-Kontoinhabers trägt, sowie (ii) 

System or the Principal Paying Agent as being 

einer  von  einem  Vertretungsberechtigten  des 

a true copy. 

Clearingsystems  oder  der  Hauptzahlstelle 

bestätigten Ablichtung der Globalurkunde. 

§ 15  Sprache 

§ 15  Language 

Diese Anleihebedingungen  sind  in  deutscher  Sprache 

These  Terms  and  Conditions  are  written  in  the 

abgefasst. Eine Übersetzung in die englische Sprache 

German  language  and  provided  with  an  English 

ist  beigefügt.  Der  deutsche  Text  ist  bindend  und 

language  translation.  The  German  text  shall  be 

maßgeblich.  Die  Übersetzung 

in  die  englische 

controlling  and  binding.  The  English 

language 

Sprache ist unverbindlich. 

translation is provided for convenience only. 

46 

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE NOTES 2035 

BEDINGUNGEN DER 

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE NOTES  

SCHULDVERSCHREIBUNGEN 

("Terms and Conditions") 

("Anleihebedingungen") 

Diese  Anleihebedingungen  sind  in  deutscher  Sprache 

These  Terms  and  Conditions  are  written  in  the 

abgefasst. Eine Übersetzung in die englische Sprache 

German  language  and  provided  with  an  English 

ist  beigefügt.  Der  deutsche  Text  ist  bindend  und 

language  translation.  The  German  text  shall  be 

maßgeblich.  Die  Übersetzung 

in  die  englische 

controlling  and  binding.  The  English 

language 

Sprache ist unverbindlich. 

translation is provided for convenience only. 

§ 1  Währung, Stückelung, Form 

§ 1  Currency, Denomination, Form 

(a)  Währung; Stückelung.  Die JAB Holdings B.V. 

(a) 

Currency;  Denomination.  The  Notes  are 

(die 

"Emittentin") 

Schuldverschreibungen 

begibt 

(die 

issued by JAB Holdings B.V. (the "Issuer") in 

Euro  (the  "Specified  Currency"), 

in 

the 

"Schuldverschreibungen") 

in  Euro 

(die 

aggregate 

principal 

amount 

of 

"Festgelegte 

Währung") 

im 

EUR 500,000,000,  divided  into  notes  in  the 

Gesamtnennbetrag 

von  EUR 500.000.000, 

specified  denomination  of  EUR 100,000  (the 

eingeteilt 

in 

Schuldverschreibungen 

im 

"Specified  Denomination") 

each 

(the 

festgelegten  Nennbetrag  von  je  EUR 100.000 

"Notes").  

(der "Festgelegte Nennbetrag").  

Die  Schuldverschreibungen  werden  von  der 

The  Notes  are  guaranteed  by  JAB  Holding 

JAB  Holding  Company 

S.à r.l. 

(die 

Company S.à r.l. (the "Guarantor"). 

"Garantin") garantiert. 

(b) 

Form.  Die  Schuldverschreibungen  lauten  auf 

(b) 

Form.  The Notes are issued in bearer form. 

den Inhaber. 

(c) 

Vorläufige  Globalurkunde  –  Austausch.  Die 

(c) 

Temporary  Global  Note  –  Exchange.  The 

Schuldverschreibungen  sind  zunächst  in  einer 

Notes  are  initially  represented  by  a  temporary 

vorläufigen  Globalurkunde  (die  "Vorläufige 

global  Note  (the  "Temporary  Global  Note") 

Globalurkunde") ohne Zinsscheine verbrieft. 

without interest coupons. 

Die  Vorläufige  Globalurkunde  wird  insgesamt 

The  Temporary  Global  Note  will  be 

oder  teilweise  und  unentgeltlich  am  oder  nach 

exchangeable,  in  whole  or  in  part  and  free  of 

dem  Tag,  der  40  Tage  nach  dem  Tag  der 

charge  to  the  holder  of  Notes,  on  or  after  the 

Begebung 

der 

Schuldverschreibungen, 

day  that  is  40  days  after  the  later  of  the 

frühestens  jedoch  40  Tage  nach  dem  Tag  des 

commencement of the offering and the date of 

Beginns  des  Angebots  liegt,  gegen  Nachweis 

issue of the Notes for a permanent global Note 

über  das  Nichtbestehen  wirtschaftlichen  U.S.-

(the 

"Permanent  Global  Note") 

(the 

Eigentums im Sinne des U.S.-Rechts (non-U.S. 

Temporary  Global  Note  and  the  Permanent 

beneficial ownership) in der in der Vorläufigen 

Global  Note,  each  a  "Global  Note")  without 

Globalurkunde  vorgesehenen  Form,  für  den 

interest  coupons  upon  certification  as  to  non-

Inhaber von Schuldverschreibungen gegen eine 

U.S.  beneficial  ownership  in  the  form  set  out 

dauerhafte  Globalurkunde 

(die 

"Dauer-

in the Temporary Global Note. The right of the 

Globalurkunde") 

(die 

Vorläufige 

Noteholders  to  require  the  issue  and  delivery 

Globalurkunde  und  die  Dauer-Globalurkunde 

of  definitive  notes  or  interest  coupons  is 

jeweils  auch  eine  "Globalurkunde")  ohne 

excluded. 

Zinsscheine  eingetauscht.  Ein  Recht  der 

Anleihegläubiger  auf  Ausgabe  und  Lieferung 

47 

von Einzelurkunden oder Zinsscheinen besteht 

nicht. 

(d) 

Clearingsystem.  Die 

Vorläufige 

(d) 

Clearing  System.  Each  of 

the  Temporary 

Globalurkunde  und  die  Dauer-Globalurkunde 

Global  Note  and  the  Permanent  Global  Note 

werden  solange  von  einem  Clearingsystem 

will  be  held  in  custody  by  or  on  behalf  of  a 

oder 

im  Auftrag  eines  Clearingsystems 

Clearing  System  until  all  obligations  of  the 

verwahrt,  bis  sämtliche  Verpflichtungen  der 

Issuer under the Notes have been satisfied. 

Emittentin  aus  den  Schuldverschreibungen 

erfüllt sind. 

"Clearingsystem" 

bezeichnet  Clearstream 

"Clearing  System"  means  Clearstream 

Banking Aktiengesellschaft,  Mergenthalerallee 

Banking Aktiengesellschaft,  Mergenthalerallee 

61, 

65760 

Eschborn, 

Bundesrepublik 

61,  65760  Eschborn,  Federal  Republic  of 

Deutschland, sowie jeden Funktionsnachfolger. 

Germany and any successor in such capacity. 

Die  Vorläufige  Globalurkunde  und  die  Dauer-

The  Temporary  Global  Note 

and 

the 

Globalurkunde 

tragen 

jeweils 

die 

Permanent  Global  Note  shall  each  bear  the 

eigenhändigen  Unterschriften 

von 

zwei 

manual  signatures  of  two  duly  authorised 

Vertretungsberechtigten  der  Emittentin  sowie 

officers  of  the  Issuer  as  well  as  the  manual 

die 

eigenhändige 

Unterschrift 

eines 

signature  of  an  authentication  officer  of  the 

Kontrollbeauftragten der Hauptzahlstelle. 

Principal Paying Agent. 

(e) 

Anleihegläubiger.  Den 

Inhabern 

von 

(e) 

Noteholders.  The 

holders 

of 

Notes 

Schuldverschreibungen  ("Anleihegläubiger") 

("Noteholders")  are  entitled  to  co-ownership 

stehen  Miteigentumsanteile  oder  vergleichbare 

participations or other comparable rights in the 

andere  Rechte  an  der  Globalurkunde  zu,  die 

Global  Note,  which  are 

transferable 

in 

gemäß 

anwendbarem  Recht 

und 

Bestimmungen 

und 

Regeln 

den 

des 

Clearingsystems übertragen werden können. 

accordance  with  applicable  laws  and  the  rules 

and regulations of the Clearing System. 

§ 2 

Status, Negativerklärung und Garantie  

§ 2 

Status, Negative Pledge and Guarantee  

(a) 

Status.  Die  Schuldverschreibungen  begründen 

(a) 

Status.  The  Notes  constitute  unsubordinated 

nicht  nachrangige  und,  vorbehaltlich  der 

and,  subject 

to 

the  Guarantee,  unsecured 

Garantie,  nicht  besicherte  Verbindlichkeiten 

obligations  of  the  Issuer  ranking  pari  passu 

der  Emittentin,  die 

im  gleichen  Rang 

among  themselves  and,  in  the  event  of  the 

untereinander und, im Falle der Auflösung, der 

dissolution,  liquidation  or  insolvency  of  the 

Liquidation  oder  der  Insolvenz  der  Emittentin 

Issuer  or  any  proceeding  to  avoid  insolvency 

oder  eines  der  Abwendung  der  Insolvenz  der 

of the Issuer,  pari passu  with all other present 

Emittentin  dienenden  Verfahrens,  im  gleichen 

and  future  unsubordinated  and  unsecured 

Rang  mit  allen  anderen  gegenwärtigen  und 

obligations  of 

the  Issuer,  save  for  such 

zukünftigen  nicht  besicherten  und  nicht 

obligations  which  may  be  preferred  by 

nachrangigen Verbindlichkeiten  der  Emittentin 

applicable law. 

stehen,  mit  Ausnahme  von  Verbindlichkeiten, 

die 

nach 

geltenden  Rechtsvorschriften 

vorrangig sind. 

(b) 

Negativerklärung 

der  Emittentin.  Solange 

(b) 

Negative  pledge  of  the  Issuer.  So  long  as  any 

noch  Kapital-  oder  Zinsbeträge  aus  den 

amounts  of 

interest  or  principal 

remain 

Schuldverschreibungen  ausstehen,  jedoch  nur 

outstanding under the Notes, but only up to the 

bis  zu  dem  Zeitpunkt,  an  dem  alle  auf  die 

time all amounts payable to Noteholders under 

Schuldverschreibungen 

gemäß 

diesen 

the  Notes  in  accordance  with  these Terms  and 

48 

Anleihebedingungen  zu  zahlenden  Beträge  an 

Conditions have been placed at the disposal of 

Kapital  und  Zinsen  dem  Clearingsystem  zur 

the Clearing System, the Issuer undertakes not 

Verfügung  gestellt  worden  sind,  verpflichtet 

to  create  or  permit  to  subsist  any  mortgage, 

sich  die  Emittentin,  kein  Grundpfandrecht, 

charge,  pledge  or  other  form  of  encumbrance 

Mobiliarpfandrecht,  Pfandrecht  oder  sonstiges 

in  rem  (each  a  "Security  Interest")  over  the 

dingliches 

Sicherungsrecht 

(jedes 

ein 

whole or any part of its present or future assets 

"Sicherungsrecht") 

an 

ihren 

gesamten 

or  revenues  to  secure  any  Capital  Market 

gegenwärtigen 

oder 

zukünftigen 

Indebtedness,  without  prior  thereto  or  at  the 

Vermögenswerten oder Einkünften oder Teilen 

same  time  letting  the  Noteholders  either  share 

davon 

zur 

Besicherung 

einer 

equally and ratably in such Security Interest or 

Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit  zu  gewähren  oder 

benefit  from  an  equivalent  other  Security 

bestehen 

zu 

lassen,  ohne 

zuvor  oder 

Interest  which  will  be  approved  by  an 

gleichzeitig  entweder  die  Anleihegläubiger 

independent  expert  as  being  equivalent 

gleichrangig  und  anteilig  an  einem  solchen 

security. 

Sicherungsrecht zu beteiligen oder zu Gunsten 

der 

Anleihegläubiger 

ein 

anderes, 

gleichwertiges  Sicherungsrecht  zu  bestellen, 

welches 

von 

einem 

unabhängigen 

Sachverständigen  als  gleichwertige  Sicherheit 

beurteilt wird. 

Die  vorgenannte  Verpflichtung  findet  keine 

The  above  undertaking  will  not  apply  to  a 

Anwendung  auf  ein  Sicherungsrecht,  das 

Security  Interest  which 

is  (i)  mandatory 

(i) nach  dem  anzuwendenden  Recht  zwingend 

according to applicable laws or (ii) required as 

notwendig  oder  (ii)  als  Voraussetzung  einer 

a prerequisite for governmental approvals. 

staatlichen Genehmigung erforderlich ist. 

Ein  nach  § 2(b) zu  leistendes  Sicherungsrecht 

Any  Security  Interest  which  is  to  be  provided 

kann  auch  zu  Gunsten  eines 

für  die 

pursuant  to  § 2(b)  may  also  be  provided  to  a 

Anleihegläubiger 

handelnden  Treuhänders 

person acting as trustee for the Noteholders. 

bestellt werden. 

"Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit" 

ist 

jede 

"Capital  Market  Indebtedness"  means  any 

gegenwärtige  oder  zukünftige  Verbindlichkeit 

indebtedness,  present  or  future,  of  the  Issuer, 

der Emittentin, der Garantin oder eines Dritten 

the Guarantor or any third party in the form of 

in  der  Form  von  Schuldverschreibungen  oder 

Notes  or  bond  or  similar  instruments  with  an 

ähnlichen 

Instrumenten 

mit 

einer 

original maturity of more than one year, which 

ursprünglichen  Laufzeit  von  mehr  als  einem 

can  be  traded  on  any  stock  exchange  or  other 

Jahr, die an einer Börse oder an einem anderen 

securities market. 

Wertpapiermarkt gehandelt werden können. 

(c) 

Garantie.  Die Garantin hat die unbedingte und 

(c) 

Guarantee.  The  Guarantor  has  given  an 

unwiderrufliche  Garantie  für  die  fristgerechte 

unconditional 

and 

irrevocable  guarantee 

Zahlung von Kapital, Zinsen und sonstigen aus 

pursuant  to  a  guarantee  dated  17  April  2020 

den  Schuldverschreibungen  zu  zahlenden 

(the  "Guarantee")  for  the  due  payment  of 

Beträgen  gemäß  einer  Garantie  vom  17. April 

principal  of,  and  interest  on,  and  any  other 

2020  (die  "Garantie")  übernommen.  Die 

amounts  expressed  to  be  payable  under  the 

Garantie 

ist  ein  Vertrag  zugunsten 

jedes 

Notes. The Guarantee constitutes a contract for 

Anleihegläubigers  als  begünstigtem  Dritten 

the  benefit  of  the  Noteholders  from  time  to 

gem.  § 328  Absatz  1 BGB,  der  das  Recht 

time  as  third  party  beneficiaries  in  accordance 

begründet,  die  Garantin  unmittelbar  aus  der 

with  § 328  paragraph  1  of  the  German  Civil 

Garantie auf Erfüllung in Anspruch zu nehmen 

Code (Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch), giving rise to 

49 

und  Ansprüche  aus  der  Garantie  gegen  die 

the  right  of  each  Noteholder 

to  require 

Garantin unmittelbar durchzusetzen.  

performance under the Guarantee directly from 

the  Guarantor  and  to  enforce  the  Guarantee 

directly against the Guarantor. 

(d) 

Negativerklärung 

der  Garantin.  In 

der 

(d) 

Negative  Pledge  of  the  Guarantor.  In  the 

Garantie  hat  sich  die  Garantin  verpflichtet, 

Guarantee  the  Guarantor  has  undertaken,  so 

solange  noch  Kapital-  oder  Zinsbeträge  aus 

long  as  any  amounts  of  interest  or  principal 

den  Schuldverschreibungen  ausstehen,  jedoch 

remain  outstanding  under  the  Notes,  but  only 

nur  bis  zu  dem  Zeitpunkt,  an  dem  alle  auf  die 

up  to  the  time  all  amounts  due  to  Noteholders 

Schuldverschreibungen 

gemäß 

diesen 

under  the  Notes  in  accordance  with  these 

Anleihebedingungen 

fälligen  Beträge 

an 

Terms and Conditions  have been placed at the 

Kapital  und  Zinsen  dem  Clearingsystem  zur 

disposal  of  the  Clearing  System,  not  to  create 

Verfügung 

gestellt  worden 

sind, 

kein 

or  permit  to  subsist  any  Security  Interest  over 

Sicherungsrecht 

an 

ihren 

gesamten 

the  whole  or  any  part  of  its  present  or  future 

gegenwärtigen 

oder 

zukünftigen 

assets  or  revenues  to  secure  any  Capital 

Vermögenswerten oder Einkünften oder Teilen 

Market  Indebtedness,  without  prior  thereto  or 

davon 

zur  Besicherung 

einer 

anderen 

at the same time letting the Noteholders either 

gegenwärtigen 

oder 

zukünftigen 

share  equally  and  ratably  in  such  Security 

Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit 

zu 

gewähren, 

Interest  or  benefit  from  an  equivalent  other 

ohne  zuvor  oder  gleichzeitig  entweder  die 

Security Interest which will be approved by an 

Anleihegläubiger  gleichrangig  und  anteilig  an 

independent  expert  as  being  equivalent 

einem  solchen  Sicherungsrecht  zu  beteiligen 

security. 

oder  zu  Gunsten  der  Anleihegläubiger  ein 

anderes,  gleichwertiges  Sicherungsrecht  zu 

bestellen,  welches  von  einem  unabhängigen 

Sachverständigen  als  gleichwertige  Sicherheit 

beurteilt wird. 

Die  vorgenannte  Verpflichtung  findet  keine 

The  above  undertaking  will  not  apply  to  a 

Anwendung  auf  ein  Sicherungsrecht,  das  (i) 

Security  Interest  which 

is  (i)  mandatory 

nach  dem  anzuwendenden  Recht  zwingend 

according to applicable laws or (ii) required as 

notwendig  oder  (ii)  als  Voraussetzung  einer 

a prerequisite for governmental approvals. 

staatlichen Genehmigung erforderlich ist. 

Ein  nach  der  Garantie 

zu 

leistendes 

Any  Security  Interest  which  is  to  be  provided 

Sicherungsrecht  kann  auch  zu  Gunsten  eines 

pursuant 

to 

the  Guarantee  may  also  be 

für 

die  Anleihegläubiger 

handelnden 

provided  to  a  person  acting  as  trustee  for  the 

Treuhänders bestellt werden. 

Noteholders. 

§ 3 

Zinsen 

§ 3 

Interest 

(a) 

Zinssatz 

und 

Zinszahlungstage.  Die 

(a) 

Rate  of 

interest  and 

Interest  Payment 

Schuldverschreibungen  werden  bezogen  auf 

Dates.  The  Notes  bear 

interest  on 

their 

ihren  ausstehenden  Nennbetrag  ab  dem 

outstanding  principal  amount 

from  and 

17. April  2020  (der  "Verzinsungsbeginn") 

including  17  April  2020 

(the  "Interest 

(einschließlich)  bis  zum  Endfälligkeitstag 

Commencement  Date")  to  but  excluding  the 

(ausschließlich) verzinst. 

Maturity Date. 

Die  Schuldverschreibungen  werden  mit 

The Notes bear interest at the rate of 3.375 per 

jährlich  3,375 %  verzinst.  Die  Zinsen  sind 

cent. per annum, such interest being payable in 

nachträglich 

an 

jedem  Zinszahlungstag 

arrear on each Interest Payment Date. 

zahlbar. 

50 

"Zinszahlungstag"  bezeichnet  den  17.  April 

"Interest  Payment  Date"  means  17  April  in 

eines  jeden  Jahres,  erstmals  den  17.  April 

each year, commencing on 17 April 2021. 

2021. 

(b) 

Zinstagequotient.  Zinsen  für  einen  beliebigen 

(b)  Day  Count  Fraction.  If  interest  is  required  to 

Zeitraum 

(ausgenommen 

ist  ein  etwaiger 

be calculated for any period of time (other than 

Zeitraum,  für  den  ein  Bruchteilzinsbetrag 

any period of time for which a broken interest 

festgelegt  ist)  werden  auf  der  Grundlage  des 

amount  has  been  fixed),  such  interest  shall  be 

Zinstagequotienten berechnet. 

calculated  on  the  basis  of  the  Day  Count 

Fraction. 

"Zinstagequotient" 

bezeichnet 

bei 

der 

"Day  Count  Fraction"  means,  in  respect  of 

Berechnung  des  Zinsbetrages 

für  einen 

the calculation of an amount of interest on any 

beliebigen Zeitraum (ab dem ersten Tag dieses 

Note  for  any  period  of  time  (from  and 

Zeitraums  (einschließlich)  bis  zum  letzten Tag 

including  the  first  day  of  such  period  to  but 

dieses  Zeitraums 

(ausschließlich)) 

(der 

excluding  the  last  day  of  such  period)  (the 

"Zinsberechnungszeitraum"): 

"Calculation Period"): 

(i) 

wenn  der  Zinsberechnungszeitraum  der 

(i) 

if  the  Calculation  Period  is  equal  to  or 

Feststellungsperiode  entspricht,  in  die 

shorter  than  the  Determination  Period 

er  fällt,  oder  kürzer  als  diese  ist,  die 

during  which  it  falls,  the  number  of 

Anzahl 

von 

Tagen 

in 

dem 

days  in  the  Calculation  Period  divided 

Zinsberechnungszeitraum 

dividiert 

by  the  product  of  (A)  the  number  of 

durch  das  Produkt  aus  (A)  der  Anzahl 

days  in  such  Determination  Period  and 

von  Tagen 

in 

der 

betreffenden 

(B) 

the  number  of  Determination 

Feststellungsperiode und (B) der Anzahl 

Periods  normally  ending  in  any  year; 

der 

Feststellungsperioden, 

die 

and 

üblicherweise in einem Jahr enden; und 

(ii)  wenn  der  Zinsberechnungszeitraum 

(ii) 

if  the  Calculation  Period  is  longer  than 

länger  als  eine  Feststellungsperiode  ist, 

one Determination Period, the sum of: 

die Summe aus: 

(A) 

der  Anzahl  der  Tage  in  dem 

(A) 

the  number  of  days  in  such 

betreffenden 

Zinsberechnungszeitraum,  die  in 

die  Feststellungsperiode  fallen, 

in 

der 

der 

Zinsberechnungszeitraum 

beginnt,  dividiert  durch  das 

Produkt  aus  (1)  der  Anzahl  der 

Tage 

in 

der 

betreffenden 

Feststellungsperiode  und  (2)  der 

Anzahl 

Feststellungsperioden, 

der 

die 

üblicherweise 

in  einem  Jahr 

enden; und 

Calculation  Period  falling  in  the 

Determination  Period  in  which 

the  Calculation  Period  begins 

divided by the product of (1) the 

number 

of 

days 

in 

such 

Determination Period and (2) the 

number 

of 

Determination 

Periods  normally  ending  in  any 

year; and 

(B) 

die  Anzahl  der  Tage  in  dem 

(B) 

the  number  of  days  in  such 

betreffenden 

Zinsberechnungszeitraum,  die  in 

die 

nachfolgende 

Calculation  Period  falling  in  the 

next  Determination 

Period 

divided by the product of (1) the 

51 

Feststellungsperiode 

fallen, 

dividiert  durch  das  Produkt  aus 

(1)  der  Anzahl  der  Tage  in  der 

betreffenden 

number 

of 

days 

in 

such 

Determination Period and (2) the 

number 

of 

Determination 

Periods  normally  ending  in  any 

Feststellungsperiode  und  (2)  der 

year 

Anzahl 

Feststellungsperioden, 

der 

die 

üblicherweise 

in  einem  Jahr 

enden. 

Dabei gilt Folgendes: 

Where: 

"Feststellungstermin" 

bezeichnet 

den 

"Determination Date" means 17 April in each 

17. April eines jeden Jahres;  

year; 

"Feststellungsperiode" 

bezeichnet 

jeden 

"Determination  Period"  means  each  period 

Zeitraum 

ab 

einem 

Feststellungstermin 

from  and  including  a  Determination  Date  in 

(einschließlich), der in ein beliebiges Jahr fällt, 

any  year 

to  but 

excluding 

the  next 

bis 

zum 

nächsten 

Feststellungstermin 

Determination Date. 

(ausschließlich). 

(c) 

Ende 

des  Zinslaufs.  Der  Zinslauf 

der 

(c) 

Cessation of Interest Accrual.  The Notes shall 

Schuldverschreibungen endet an dem Ende des 

cease  to  bear  interest  from  the  end  of  the  day 

Tages, der dem Tag vorausgeht, an dem sie zur 

preceding their due date for redemption. If the 

Rückzahlung 

fällig  werden.  Falls 

die 

Issuer  fails  to  redeem  the  Notes  when  due, 

Emittentin  die  Schuldverschreibungen  bei 

interest  shall  continue 

to  accrue  on 

the 

Fälligkeit  nicht  einlöst,  wird  der  ausstehende 

outstanding  amount  from  (and  including)  the 

Betrag 

ab 

dem  Tag 

der 

Fälligkeit 

due  date  to  (but  excluding)  the  day  on  which 

(einschließlich)  bis  zum  Tag  der  vollständigen 

such payment is received by or on behalf of the 

Zahlung 

an 

die 

Anleihegläubiger 

(ausschließlich) 
bestimmten Verzugszins verzinst.3.  

dem 

mit 

gesetzlich 

Noteholders  at  the  default  rate  of  interest 
established by statutory law.4  

§ 4  Rückzahlung 

§ 4  Redemption 

(a) 

Rückzahlung  bei  Endfälligkeit.  Soweit  nicht 

(a) 

Redemption  at  maturity.  To  the  extent  not 

zuvor  bereits 

insgesamt  oder 

teilweise 

previously  redeemed  in  whole  or  in  part,  or 

zurückgezahlt  oder  angekauft  und  eingezogen, 

purchased  and  cancelled  the  Notes  shall  be 

werden  die  Schuldverschreibungen  zu  ihrem 

redeemed  at  their  Specified  Denomination  on 

Festgelegten  Nennbetrag  am  17.  April  2035 

17 April 2035 (the "Maturity Date").  

(der "Endfälligkeitstag") zurückgezahlt.  

(b) 

Vorzeitige  Rückzahlung  wegen  des  Eintritts 

(b) 

Early redemption following a Gross up Event. 

eines Gross-up-Ereignisses. 

Sofern 

nach 

der 

Begebung 

der 

If  at  any  time  after  the  issue  of  the  Notes  a 

Schuldverschreibungen  ein  Gross-up-Ereignis 

Gross up Event (as defined below) occurs, the 

(wie  nachstehend  definiert)  eintritt,  ist  die 

Issuer  may  call  and  redeem  the  Notes  (in 

Emittentin 

berechtigt, 

die 

whole but not in part) at any time on giving not 

                                                           
3 

 

Der gesetzliche Verzugszinssatz entspricht dem von der Deutschen Bundesbank von Zeit zu Zeit veröffentlichten Basiszinssatz 
zuzüglich fünf Prozentpunkten, §§ 288 Abs. 1, 247 Abs. 1 BGB.  

4 

 

The default rate of interest established by statutory law is five percentage points above the basis rate of interest published by 
Deutsche  Bundesbank  from  time  to  time,  §§  288  paragraph  1,  247  paragraph  1  of  the  German  Civil  Code  (Bürgerliches 
Gesetzbuch).  

52 

Schuldverschreibungen 

jederzeit  (insgesamt, 

less  than  30  nor  more  than  60  days'  notice  in 

jedoch  nicht  nur  teilweise)  durch  Erklärung 

accordance  with  § 4(c).  In  this  case  the  Issuer 

gemäß  § 4(c)  unter  Einhaltung  einer  Frist  von 

will  redeem  each  Note  at 

its  Specified 

nicht  weniger  als  30  und  nicht  mehr  als  60 

Denomination together with interest accrued to 

Tagen  zu  kündigen.  Die  Emittentin 

ist 

but  excluding  such  the  date  of  redemption 

verpflichtet,  jede  Schuldverschreibung  an  dem 

specified 

in 

the  notice  on 

the  date  of 

in 

der 

Bekanntmachung 

festgelegten 

redemption specified in the notice. 

Kündigungstag 

zu 

ihrem 

Festgelegten 

Nennbetrag  zuzüglich  bis  zu  dem  in  der 

Bekanntmachung  festgelegten  Kündigungstag 

(ausschließlich) 

aufgelaufener 

Zinsen 

zurückzuzahlen. 

Eine solche Kündigung darf nicht früher als 90 

No  such  notice  may  be  given  earlier  than  90 

Tage  vor  dem  Tag  erfolgen,  an  dem  die 

days  prior  to  the  earliest  date  on  which  the 

Emittentin 

oder  die  Garantin 

erstmals 

Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  would  be  obliged  to 

verpflichtet  wäre,  Zusätzliche  Beträge  (wie  in 

pay the Additional Amounts (as defined in § 6) 

§ 6  definiert)  zu  zahlen  bzw.  wenn  eine 

or (as the case may be) in respect of a demand 

ordnungsgemäße  Zahlungsaufforderung  unter 

for  payment  duly  made  under  the  Guarantee, 

der Garantie erfolgen würde. 

for the first time. 

Ein  "Gross-up-Ereignis"  tritt  ein,  wenn,  der 

A  "Gross  up  Event"  will  occur  if  an  opinion 

Emittentin  oder  der  Garantin  ein  Gutachten 

of a recognised law firm has been delivered to 

einer anerkannten Anwaltskanzlei vorliegt (und 

the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  (and  the  Issuer  or 

die  Emittentin  oder  die  Garantin  der 

the  Guarantor  has  provided  the  Principal 

Hauptzahlstelle  eine  Kopie  davon  gibt)  aus 

Paying Agent with a copy thereof) stating that, 

dem  hervorgeht,  dass  die  Emittentin  oder  die 

the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor,  as  a  result  of  any 

Garantin aufgrund einer an oder nach dem Tag 

change  in,  or  amendment  to,  the  laws  (or  any 

der  Begebung  der  Schuldverschreibungen  in 

rules  or 

regulations 

thereunder)  of 

the 

Kraft  tretenden  Gesetzesänderung  (oder  einer 

Netherlands,  Luxembourg  or 

the  Federal 

Änderung 

von 

darunter 

erlassenen 

Republic  of  Germany  or  any  political 

Bestimmungen 

und  Vorschriften) 

der 

subdivision  or  any  authority  of  or  in  the 

Niederlande,  von  Luxemburg  oder  der 

Netherlands,  Luxembourg  or 

the  Federal 

Bundesrepublik  Deutschland  oder  einer  zur 

Republic  of  Germany  having  power  to  tax,  or 

Erhebung 

von 

Steuern 

berechtigten 

as a result of any change in, or amendment to, 

Gebietskörperschaft 

oder  Behörde 

der 

the official interpretation or application of any 

Niederlande,  von  Luxemburg  oder  der 

such 

laws,  rules  or  regulations  by  any 

Bundesrepublik  Deutschland,  oder  als  Folge 

legislative  body,  court,  governmental  agency 

einer Änderung der offiziellen Auslegung oder 

or 

regulatory 

authority 

(including 

Anwendung  dieser  Gesetze,  Bestimmungen 

enactment  of 

any 

legislation 

and 

the 

the 

oder  Vorschriften  durch  eine  gesetzgebende 

publication  of  any 

judicial  decision  or 

Körperschaft, 

ein 

Gericht, 

eine 

regulatory  determination),  which  change  or 

Regierungsstelle  oder  eine  Aufsichtsbehörde 

amendment  becomes  effective  on  or  after  the 

(einschließlich  des  Erlasses  von  Gesetzen 

date  of  issue  of  the  Notes  has  or  will  become 

sowie  der  Bekanntmachung  gerichtlicher  oder 

obliged to pay Additional Amounts pursuant to 

aufsichtsrechtlicher 

Entscheidungen), 

§ 6  on  the  Notes  or  the  Guarantor  has  or  will 

verpflichtet  ist  oder  verpflichtet  sein  wird, 

become  obliged  to  pay Additional Amounts  in 

Zusätzliche  Beträge  gemäß  § 6  auf  die 

respect  of  payments  due  under  the  Guarantee, 

Schuldverschreibungen  zu  zahlen,  oder  die 

and  that  obligation  cannot  be  avoided  by  the 

Garantin  verpflichtet  ist  oder  verpflichtet  sein 

Issuer  and  the  Guarantor,  respectively,  taking 

53 

wird,  Zusätzliche  Beträge  auf  fällige  Beträge 

such  measures  it  (acting  in  good  faith)  deems 

aus der Garantie zu zahlen, und die Emittentin 

reasonable and appropriate. 

bzw.  die  Garantin  diese  Verpflichtung  nicht 

abwenden  kann, 

indem 

sie  Maßnahmen 

ergreift,  die  sie  nach  Treu  und  Glauben  für 

zumutbar und angemessen hält. 

(c) 

Kündigungserklärung.  Die  Kündigung  erfolgt 

(c) 

Notice.  The  appropriate  notice  is  a  notice 

durch  Bekanntmachung  der  Emittentin  an  die 

given  by  the  Issuer  to  the  Noteholders  in 

Anleihegläubiger  gemäß  § 11.  Die  Kündigung 

accordance  with  § 11  which  notice  shall  be 

ist unwiderruflich, und in ihr wird bestimmt: 

irrevocable and shall specify: 

– 

– 

der  betreffende  Tag  der  vorzeitigen 

Rückzahlung;  

der betreffende Rückzahlungsbetrag, zu 

– 

– 

the applicable date of early redemption;  

the  applicable  redemption  amount  at 

dem 

die 

Schuldverschreibungen 

which  such  Notes  are  to  be  redeemed 

vorzeitig zurückgezahlt werden; und 

early; and 

– 

der  bis  zum  Tag  der  vorzeitigen 

– 

the  amount  of  interest  accrued  to  but 

Rückzahlung 

(ausschließlich) 

excluding  the  date  of  redemption  to  be 

aufgelaufene 

und 

zu 

zahlende 

paid. 

Zinsbetrag. 

Die  Emittentin  wird  jeder  Börse,  an  der  die 

The  Issuer  will  inform,  if  required  by  such 

Schuldverschreibungen  notiert  sind  und  deren 

stock  exchange  on  which  the  Notes  are  listed, 

Regeln eine Mitteilung an die Börse verlangen, 

such  stock  exchange  as  soon  as  possible  of 

umgehend  Mitteilung  über  die  Kündigung 

such redemption. 

machen. 

(d) 

Erwerb.  Die Emittentin oder die Garantin oder 

(d) 

Purchase.  The  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  or  any 

jede 

ihrer 

jeweiligen  Tochtergesellschaften 

of their respective subsidiaries may at any time 

können 

jederzeit  vorbehaltlich  zwingender 

and  subject  to  mandatory  provisions  of  law 

gesetzlicher 

Regelungen 

purchase  Notes 

in 

the  open  market  or 

Schuldverschreibungen  auf  dem  freien  Markt 

otherwise  and  at  any  price.  Such  acquired 

oder  anderweitig  sowie  zu  jedem  beliebigen 

Notes may be cancelled, held or resold. 

Preis 

erwerben. 

Derartig 

erworbene 

Schuldverschreibungen  können  eingezogen, 

gehalten oder wieder veräußert werden. 

(e) 

Kontrollwechsel. 

(e) 

Change of Control. 

(i)  Wenn  ein  Rückzahlungsereignis  (wie 

(i) 

If  a  Put  Event  (as  defined  below) 

nachstehend  definiert)  eintritt,  wird  die 

occurs,  the  Issuer  will  give  notice  in 

Emittentin innerhalb von 21 Tagen nach 

accordance  with  § 11  of  the  Put  Event 

Ablauf  der  jeweiligen  in  § 4(e)(v)(A), 

and the Put Record Date specifying the 

(B) oder  (C)  genannten  90-Tageperiode 

nature  of  the  Put  Event  within  21  days 

das  Rückzahlungsereignis  und  den 

of the end of the 90-day period referred 

Rückzahlungsstichtag unter Angabe der 

to  in  § 4(e)(v)(A),  (B)  or  (C),  as  the 

Umstände  des  Rückzahlungsereignisses 

case may be. 

gemäß § 11 bekannt machen.  

"Rückzahlungsstichtag" 

bezeichnet 

"Put Record Date" means the Business 

den  von  der  Emittentin  gemäß  § 4(e)(i) 

Day  fixed  by  the  Issuer  pursuant  to 

54 

festgelegten  Geschäftstag,  der  nicht 

§ 4(e)(i)  which  will  be  not  less  than  15 

weniger  als  15  und  nicht  mehr  als  30 

nor  more  than  30  days  after  the  notice 

Tage 

nach 

dem 

Tag 

Bekanntmachung 

der 

des 

Rückzahlungsereignisses  gemäß  § 11 

liegen darf. 

of the Put Event and which is published 

in accordance with § 11.  

(ii) 

Falls die Emittentin gemäß § 4(e)(i) ein 

(ii) 

If  the  Issuer  gives  notice  in  accordance 

Rückzahlungsereignis  bekannt  gemacht 

with  § 4(e)(i)  of  a  Put  Event,  each 

hat,  ist  jeder  Gläubiger  nach  seiner 

Holder  may  at  his  option  on  giving  not 

Wahl  berechtigt,  mit  einer  Frist  von 

less  than  7  days'  notice  declare  all  or 

mindestens  7  Tagen  mit  Wirkung  zum 

some  only  of  his  Notes  not  previously 

Rückzahlungsstichtag alle oder einzelne 

redeemed  due  which  notice  shall  take 

seiner Schuldverschreibungen, die noch 

effect  on  the  Put  Record  Date.  In  such 

nicht  zurückgezahlt  wurden,  vorzeitig 

case  the  Issuer  will  redeem  such  Notes 

fällig  zu  stellen.  In  einem  solchen  Fall 

on the Put Record Date at the Principal 

hat  die  Emittentin  die  betreffenden 

Amount  plus  interest  accrued  to  but 

Schuldverschreibungen 

am 

excluding the Put Record Date. 

Rückzahlungsstichtag 

zu 

ihrem 

Festgelegten  Nennbetrag 

zuzüglich 

etwaiger 

bis 

zu 

dem 

Rückzahlungsstichtag 

(ausschließlich) 

aufgelaufener Zinsen zurückzuzahlen.  

Eine  Fälligstellung  gemäß  diesem 

A  notice  pursuant  to  this  § 4(e)(ii)  has 

§ 4(e)(ii)  hat  durch  Übergabe  einer 

to  be  effected  by  delivering  a  written 

schriftlichen  Erklärung  oder  mittels 

notice  or  sending  such  notice  by 

eingeschriebenen Briefes gegenüber der 

registered  mail  to  the  Principal  Paying 

Hauptzahlstelle  zu  erfolgen  und 

ist 

Agent and is irrevocable. The respective 

unwiderruflich. 

Der 

betreffende 

Holder  must  demonstrate  with  a 

Gläubiger  hat  dabei  durch 

eine 

certificate from his Custodian that he is 

Bescheinigung 

seiner 

Depotbank 

the  holder  of  the  respective  Note(s)  at 

nachzuweisen, dass er zu dem Zeitpunkt 

the  time  of  the  declaration,  and  deliver 

der  Erklärung  Inhaber  der  betreffenden 

to 

the  Principal  Paying  Agent 

the 

Schuldverschreibung(en)  ist,  und  seine 

Note(s)  for  which  the  right  shall  be 

Schuldverschreibung(en),  für  die  das 

exercised.  

Recht  ausgeübt  werden  soll,  an  die 

Hauptzahlstelle zu liefern. 

(iii)  Ein  "Rückzahlungsereignis"  tritt  ein, 

(iii)  A "Put Event" will occur if 

wenn 

(A) 

die 

Emittentin 

Kontrollwechsel 

einen 

(wie 

(A) 

the  Issuer  announces  a  Change 

of  Control  (as  defined  below); 

nachstehend  definiert)  bekannt 

and 

macht; und 

(B) 

nach 

Eintritt 

des 

(B) 

a  Negative  Rating  Event  (as 

Kontrollwechsels  und  aufgrund 

dessen 

ein 

Negatives 

Ratingereignis  (wie  nachstehend 

definiert) eintritt. 

55 

defined  below)  occurs  after  the 

occurrence and as a result of the 

Change of Control. 

(iv)  Ein  "Kontrollwechsel"  liegt  vor,  wenn 

(iv)  A  "Change  of  Control"  occurs  if  after 

irgendeine 

Person 

oder  mehrere 

the  date  of  issue  of  the  Notes  (whether 

Personen  ("Relevante(n)  Person(en)"), 

or  not  approved  by  the  Management 

allein  oder  gemeinsam 

handelnd, 

Board  or  Supervisory  Board  of  the 

und/oder  ein  Dritter  oder  mehrere 

Issuer  or  the  Guarantor)  any  person  or 

Dritte, 

der/die 

im  Auftrag 

der 

persons  ("Relevant  Person(s)")  acting 

Relevanten  Person(en)  handelt  bzw. 

in concert and/or any person or persons 

handeln,  (soweit  es  sich  nicht  um 

acting  on  behalf  of  any  such  Relevant 

Familienmitglieder  und/oder  Mitglieder 

Person(s) 

(other 

than 

the  Family 

der  Geschäftsführung  handelt)  nach 

Members  and/or 

the  Management 

dem 

Tag 

der 

Begebung 

der 

Members),  

Schuldverschreibungen 

(unabhängig 

davon,  ob  der  Vorstand  oder  der 

Aufsichtsrat 

der  Emittentin 

oder 

Garantin  hierzu  seine  Zustimmung 

erteilt hat),  

 

(A) 

zu  irgendeinem  Zeitpunkt  direkt 

(A) 

at any time directly or indirectly 

oder  indirekt  mehr  als  35 %  der 

Geschäftsanteile 

oder 

der 

Stimmrechte 

der  Emittentin 

und/oder  der  Garantin  erwerben, 

und 

acquire(s) more than 35 per cent. 

of the shares or the voting rights 

of 

the 

Issuer 

and/or 

the 

Guarantor, and 

(B) 

die  Anzahl  der  Geschäftsanteile 

(B) 

the  number  of  shares  or  voting 

oder  der  Stimmrechte,  die  durch 

die  Relevante(n)  Person(en) 

erworben 

werden, 

Geschäftsanteile 

oder 

die 

die 

Stimmrechte 

der  Emittentin 

und/oder 

der 

Garantin 

übersteigen,  die  direkt  oder 

indirekt von Familienmitgliedern 

und 

Mitgliedern 

der 

Geschäftsführung 

gehalten 

werden. 

rights  acquired  by  the  Relevant 

Person(s)  exceeds  the  shares  or 

the  voting  rights  of  the  Issuer 

and/or  the  Guarantor  that  are 

held,  directly  or  indirectly,  by 

the  Family  Members  and  the 

Management Members. 

Wenn ein Kontrollwechsel eintritt, wird 

If  a  Change  of  Control  occurs,  the 

die  Emittentin  sobald  wie  möglich, 

Issuer  will  give  notice  in  accordance 

nachdem  sie  Kenntnis  davon  erhalten 

with § 11 of the Change of Control and 

hat,  den  Kontrollwechsel  und  den  Tag, 

the  date  on  which  the  transaction  that 

an  dem  die  Transaktion,  die  den 

constitutes  the  Change  of  Control  has 

Kontrollwechsel  bewirkt,  vollzogen 

been 

consummated 

(the 

"Record 

worden ist (der "Stichtag"), gemäß § 11 

Date")  as  soon  as  practicable  after 

bekannt machen. 

becoming aware thereof. 

"Familienmitglieder"  bezeichnet  jeden 

"Family  Members"  means  any  of  the 

derzeitigen  Aktionär  der  Agnaten  SE 

current  shareholders  of  Agnaten  SE 

und/oder  der  Lucresca  SE,  deren 

and/or  Lucresca  SE,  their  Descendants 

Abkömmlinge 

(wie 

nachstehend 

(Abkömmlinge)  (as  defined  below)  and 

definiert)  und  Ehegatten  und  jede  von 

spouses (Ehegatten) and any foundation 

56 

einem  derzeitigen  Aktionär  durch 

(Stiftung)  established 

in  accordance 

letztwillige 

Verfügung 

errichtete 

with 

a 

testamentary 

disposition 

Stiftung. 

(letztwillige  Verfügung)  of  such  current 

shareholder. 

"Abkömmlinge" 

bezeichnet 

die 

"Descendants"  means  natural  children 

leiblichen  Kinder  und  deren  leibliche 

and  their  natural  descendants.  Adopted 

Abkömmlinge.  Adoptierte  Kinder 

children  shall  in  all  respects  be  treated 

werden in jeder Beziehung wie leibliche 

equally  with  natural  children  and  pass 

Kinder  behandelt  und  gelten  wie 

on  the  quality  as  Descendants  like 

leibliche  Kinder  als  Abkömmlinge, 

natural  children,  but  always  provided 

vorausgesetzt,  die  adoptierte  Person 

wurde  vor 

ihrem  18.  Geburtstag 

adoptiert.  § 1923  Absatz  2  BGB  findet 

Anwendung. 

that  the  adoption  took  place  before  the 
18th  birthday  of  the  person  adopted. 
§ 1923(2)  of  the  German  Civil  Code 

(Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch) shall apply. 

"Mitglieder  der  Geschäftsführung" 

"Management  Members"  means  any 

bezeichnet 

jedes 

ehemaliges  oder 

past  or  current  member  of 

the 

gegenwärtige 

Mitglied 

der 

management  board  of  the  Guarantor  or 

Geschäftsführung  der  Garantin  oder 

any  other  manager  who  is  or  was 

einen 

anderen  Manager,  der 

ein 

employed  by  or  acting  on  behalf  of  the 

Arbeitsverhältnis  mit  der  Garantin  hat 

Guarantor or any of its affiliates. 

oder hatte oder im Namen der Garantin 

oder  im  Namen  eines  mit  der  Garantin 

verbundenen Unternehmen handelt oder 

handelte. 

(v) 

Ein "Negatives Ratingereignis" gilt im 

(v)  A  "Negative  Rating  Event"  shall  be 

Hinblick  auf  einen  zuvor  eingetretenen 

deemed to have occurred in respect of a 

Kontrollwechsel als eingetreten, wenn:  

Change  of  Control 

that  previously 

(A) 

für 

den 

Fall, 

dass 

Schuldverschreibungen 

die 

am 

Stichtag  über  kein  Rating  von 

einer 

Ratingagentur 

(wie 

nachstehend  definiert)  verfügen, 

keine 

einzige  Ratingagentur 

innerhalb  von  90  Tagen  ab  dem 

Stichtag (ausschließlich) (die "90 

Tageperiode")  ein  Investment 

Grade  Rating  (d.h.  mindestens 

"BBB-"  durch  S&P  oder  Fitch 

oder "Baa3" durch Moody's oder 

ein  korrespondierendes  Rating 

einer anderen Ratingagentur)  für 

die 

Schuldverschreibungen 

vergibt; oder 

occurred if:  

(A) 

in  case,  on  the  Record  Date,  no 

credit  rating  from  any  Rating 

Agency  (as  defined  below)  is 

assigned  to  the  Notes  and  no 

single  Rating Agency  assigns  an 

investment  grade  credit  rating 

(i.e.  at  least  "BBB-"  by  S&P  or 

Fitch  or  "Baa3"  by  Moody's  or 

such  other  equivalent  rating  as 

may  be  assigned  by  any  other 

rating  agency) 

to 

the  Notes 

within  90  days 

from  but 

excluding  the  Record  Date  (the 

"90-day period"); or 

(B) 

für 

den 

Fall, 

dass 

Schuldverschreibungen 

die 

am 

Stichtag 

zwar 

über 

kein 

(B) 

in  case,  on  the  Record  Date,  no 

investment  grade  credit  rating  is 

assigned to the Notes but one or 

57 

more 

non-investment 

grade 

credit ratings ("BB+" by S&P or 

Fitch  or  "Ba1"  by  Moody's  or 

such  other  equivalent  rating  as 

may  be  assigned  by  any  other 

rating  agency,  or  equivalent,  or 

worse) are assigned to the Notes 

(with  the  consent  of  the  Issuer), 

within  the  90-day  period  all 

Rating  Agencies 

downgrade 

their  respective  credit  ratings  by 

one  or  more  notches 

(for 

illustration,  "BB+"  to  "BB"  or 

"Ba1" 

to  "Ba2"  being  one 

notch), 

provided 

that 

no 

Negative  Rating  Event  occurs  if 

any  such  credit  rating  is,  within 

the  90-day  period,  subsequently 

reinstated to its earlier or a better 

credit  rating  by  at  least  one 

Rating Agency; or 

(C) 

in case, on the Record Date, one 

or  more  investment  grade  credit 

ratings are assigned to the Notes 

(with  the  consent  of  the  Issuer), 

within 

the  90-day  period  all 

Rating  Agencies 

downgrade 

their  respective  credit  ratings  to 

non-investment 

grade 

credit 

ratings 

or  withdraw 

their 

respective 

credit 

ratings, 

provided 

that  no  Negative 

Rating  Event  occurs  if  any  such 

credit  rating  is,  within  the  90-

day 

period, 

subsequently 

reinstated to its earlier or a better 

investment grade credit rating by 

at least one Rating Agency or (in 

the  case  of  a  withdrawal) 

replaced  by  an  investment  grade 

credit  rating  from  any  other 

Rating Agency.  

Investment  Grade  Rating  aber 

über  ein  oder  mehrere  (mit 

Zustimmung 

der  Emittentin 

erteilte)  Non-Investment  Grade 

Ratings ("BB+" durch S&P oder 

Fitch oder "Ba1" durch Moody's 

oder 

ein 

korrespondierendes 

Rating 

einer 

anderen 

Ratingagentur  oder  gleichwertig 

oder 

schlechter) 

verfügen, 

sämtliche  Ratingagenturen 

ihr 

jeweiliges  Rating  innerhalb  der 

90-Tageperiode  um  einen  oder 

mehrere 

Punkte 

(zur 

Erläuterung:  "BB+"  nach  "BB" 

bzw. 

"Ba1" 

nach 

"Ba2" 

entspricht 

einem 

Punkt) 

absenken,  wobei  kein  Negatives 

Ratingereignis 

eintritt,  wenn 

eines  dieser  Ratings  innerhalb 

der 90-Tageperiode anschließend 

seitens 

mindestens 

einer 

Ratingagentur 

auf 

das 

ursprüngliche  oder  ein  besseres 

Rating angehoben wird; oder 

(C) 

für 

den 

Fall, 

dass 

Schuldverschreibungen 

die 

am 

Stichtag  zwar  über  ein  oder 

mehrere  (mit  Zustimmung  der 

Emittentin  erteilte)  Investment 

Grade 

Ratings 

verfügen, 

sämtliche  Ratingagenturen 

ihr 

jeweiliges  Rating  innerhalb  der 

90-Tageperiode  auf  ein  Non-

Investment 

Grade 

Rating 

absenken  oder 

ihr 

jeweiliges 

Rating zurückziehen, wobei kein 

Negatives Ratingereignis eintritt, 

wenn 

eines  dieser  Ratings 

innerhalb  der  90-Tageperiode 

anschließend  seitens  mindestens 

einer  Ratingagentur  auf  das 

ursprüngliche  oder  ein  besseres 

Investment 

Grade 

Rating 

angehoben  wird  oder  (im  Falle 

einer 

Zurückziehung) 

das 

betreffende  Rating  durch  das 

Investment  Grade  Rating  einer 

anderen  Ratingagentur  ersetzt 

58 

wird.  

Falls  die  Schuldverschreibungen  zum 

If on the Record Date the Notes carry a 

Stichtag  über  ein  Rating  von  mehr  als 

rating  from  more 

than  one  Rating 

einer  Rating  Agentur  verfügen,  von 

Agency,  at 

least  one  of  which 

is 

denen  mindestens  eines  ein  Investment 

investment grade, then § 4(e)(v)(C) will 

Grade  Rating  ist,  findet  § 4(e)(v)(C) 

apply. 

Anwendung. 

"Ratingagentur"  bezeichnet 

jeweils 

"Rating  Agency"  means  each  of 

Moody's  Investors  Services  Limited 

Moody's  Investors  Services  Limited 

("Moody's")  oder  Standard  &  Poor's 

("Moody's")  or  Standard  &  Poor's 

Rating  Services,  eine  Abteilung  von 

Rating  Services,  a  division  of  The 

The  McGraw-Hill  Companies 

Inc. 

McGraw-Hill  Companies  Inc.  ("S&P") 

("S&P"),  oder  Fitch  Ratings  Ltd 

or Fitch Ratings Ltd ("Fitch"), or any of 

("Fitch") 

oder 

eine 

jeweilige 

their respective successors. 

Nachfolgegesellschaft. 

Falls  sich  die  von  Moody's,  S&P  oder 

If  the  rating  designations  employed  by 

Fitch  verwendeten  Rating  Kategorien 

any  of  Moody's,  S&P  or  Fitch  are 

gegenüber  denen,  die 

in  § 4(e)(v) 

changed from those which are described 

angegeben  wurde,  ändern  sollten,  wird 

in  § 4(e)(v)  above,  the  Issuer  shall 

die  Emittentin 

diejenigen  Rating 

determine  the  rating  designations  of 

Kategorien  von  Moody's,  S&P  bzw. 

Moody's  or  S&P  or  Fitch 

(as 

Fitch  bestimmen,  die  den  früheren 

appropriate)  as  are  most  equivalent  to 

Rating  Kategorien  von  Moody's,  S&P 

the prior rating designations of Moody's 

bzw.  Fitch  möglichst  nahekommen. 

or  S&P  or  Fitch  and  § 4(e)(v)  shall  be 

§ 4(e)(v) 

ist 

dann 

entsprechend 

read accordingly. 

auszulegen. 

§ 5 

Zahlungen 

(a) 

Zahlungen. 

§ 5 

Payments 

(a) 

Payments. 

(i) 

Die  Zahlung  von  Kapital  und  Zinsen 

(i) 

Payment of principal and interest on the 

auf  die  Schuldverschreibungen  erfolgt 

Notes  shall  be  made  to  the  Clearing 

an  das  Clearingsystem  oder  an  dessen 

System  or  to  its  order  for  credit  to  the 

Order zur Gutschrift auf den Konten der 

relevant account holders of the Clearing 

jeweiligen 

Kontoinhaber 

Clearingsystems 

außerhalb 

des 

der 

System  outside 

the  United  States. 

Payment 

of 

interest 

on  Notes 

Vereinigten  Staaten.  Die  Zahlung  von 

represented  by  a  Temporary  Global 

Zinsen  auf  Schuldverschreibungen,  die 

Note 

shall  be  made,  upon  due 

durch  eine  Vorläufige  Globalurkunde 

certification  as  provided  in  § 1(c). Any 

verbrieft 

sind, 

erfolgt 

nach 

reference in these Terms and Conditions 

ordnungsgemäßem  Nachweis  gemäß 

of the Notes to principal or interest will 

§ 1(c).  Eine  Bezugnahme 

in  diesen 

be  deemed  to  include  any  Additional 

Anleihebedingungen  auf  Kapital  oder 

Amounts as set forth in § 6. 

Zinsen 

der 

Schuldverschreibungen 

schließt  jegliche  Zusätzlichen  Beträge 

gemäß § 6 ein. 

(ii) 

Sämtliche  Zahlungen  stehen  in  allen 

(ii)  All payments will be subject in all cases 

Fällen  unter  dem  Vorbehalt  geltender 

to  any  applicable  fiscal  and  other  laws, 

59 

steuerlicher  und  sonstiger  gesetzlicher 

directives 

and 

regulations 

or 

Vorschriften, 

Richtlinien 

und 

agreements  to  which  the  Issuer,  the 

Verordnungen  oder  sonstiger  Verträge, 

Guarantor,  the  Principal  Paying  Agent 

denen sich die Emittentin, die Garantin, 

or  any  Paying  Agent,  as  the  case  may 

die Hauptzahlstelle oder eine  Zahlstelle 

be,  agree  to  be  subject  and  the  Issuer, 

unterworfen  haben.  Die  Emittentin,  die 

the  Guarantor  or,  as  the  case  may  be, 

Garantin,  die  Hauptzahlstelle  bzw.  eine 

the  Principal  Paying  Agent  or 

the 

Zahlstelle  ist  nicht  für  irgendwelche 

Paying Agent,  as  the  case  may  be,  will 

Steuern  oder  Abgaben  gleich  welcher 

not  be  liable  for  any  taxes  or  duties  of 

Art verantwortlich, die aufgrund solcher 

whatever  nature  imposed  or  levied  by 

gesetzlichen  Vorschriften,  Richtlinien 

such  laws,  regulations,  directives  or 

oder  Verordnungen  oder  Verträgen 

agreements, but without prejudice to the 

auferlegt  oder  erhoben  werden.  Dies 

provisions  of  § 6.  No  commission  or 

berührt jedoch nicht die Bestimmungen 

expenses  shall  be  charged 

to 

the 

von § 6. Den Anleihegläubigern werden 

Noteholders 

in 

respect 

of 

such 

keine  Kosten  oder  Gebühren  in  Bezug 

payments. 

auf diese Zahlungen auferlegt. 

(b) 

Zahlungsweise.  Zu  leistende  Zahlungen  auf 

(b)  Manner of payment.  Payments of amounts due 

die  Schuldverschreibungen  erfolgen  in  der 

in  respect  of  the  Notes  shall  be  made  in  the 

Festgelegten Währung.  

Specified Currency. 

(c) 

Erfüllung.  Die  Emittentin  bzw.  die  Garantin 

(c) 

Discharge.  The  Issuer  or,  as  the  case  may  be, 

wird  durch  Leistung  der  Zahlung  an  das 

the  Guarantor  shall  be  discharged  by  payment 

Clearingsystem oder an dessen Order von ihrer 

to, or to the order of, the Clearing System. 

Zahlungspflicht befreit. 

(d) 

Zahltag.  Fällt der Fälligkeitstag einer Zahlung 

(d) 

Payment  Business  Day.  If  the  due  date  for 

in  Bezug  auf  eine  Schuldverschreibung  auf 

payment of any amount in respect of any Note 

einen  Tag,  der  kein  Zahltag  ist,  dann  hat  der 

is  not  a  Payment  Business  Day  then  the 

Anleihegläubiger 

keinen  Anspruch 

auf 

Noteholder  shall  not  be  entitled  to  payment 

Zahlung  vor  dem  nächstfolgenden  Zahltag  am 

until  the  next  such  day  in  the  relevant  place 

jeweiligen  Geschäftsort.  Der Anleihegläubiger 

and  shall  not  be  entitled  to  further  interest  or 

ist  nicht  berechtigt,  weitere  Zinsen  oder 

other payment in respect of such delay. 

sonstige 

Zahlungen 

aufgrund 

dieser 

Verspätung zu verlangen. 

Für  diese  Zwecke  bezeichnet  "Zahltag"  einen 

For  these  purposes,  "Payment  Business  Day" 

Tag  (außer  einem  Samstag  oder  Sonntag),  (i) 

means  a  day  which  is  a  day  (other  than  a 

an dem das Clearingsystem und (ii) das Trans-

Saturday  or  a  Sunday)  on  which  both  (i) the 

European  Automated  Real-time  Gross 

Clearing  System,  and  (ii) the  Trans-European 

settlement  Express  Transfer 

system 

2 

Automated  Real-time  Gross 

settlement 

(TARGET)  geöffnet  sind,  um  Zahlungen 

Express Transfer system 2 (TARGET) are open 

abzuwickeln. 

§ 6 

Besteuerung 

to effect payments. 

§ 6 

Taxation 

Sämtliche 

auf 

die  Schuldverschreibungen 

zu 

All  amounts  to  be  paid  in  respect  of  the  Notes 

zahlenden  Beträge  (einschließlich  sämtlicher  von  der 

(including  all  amounts  to  be  paid  by  the  Guarantor 

Garantin  auf  die  Garantie  zu  zahlender  Beträge) 

under  the  Guarantee)  will  be  paid  free  and  clear  of, 

werden  ohne  Einbehalt  oder  Abzug  von  Steuern, 

and  without  withholding  or  deduction  for,  any  taxes, 

Abgaben,  Festsetzungen  oder  behördlicher  Gebühren 

duties,  assessments  or  governmental  charges  of 

jedweder  Art  geleistet  ("Steuern"),  die  von  den 

whatever nature ("Taxes") imposed, levied, collected, 

60 

Niederlanden,  Luxemburg  bzw.  der  Bundesrepublik 

withheld or assessed by the Netherlands, Luxembourg 

Deutschland  oder  einer  ihrer  Gebietskörperschaften 

or the Federal Republic of Germany (as the case may 

oder  Behörden  oder  sonstigen  Stellen 

in  den 

be)  or  any  political  subdivision  or  any  authority  or 

Niederlanden,  Luxemburg  bzw.  der  Bundesrepublik 

any  other  agency  of  or 

in 

the  Netherlands, 

Deutschland  mit  der  Befugnis  zur  Erhebung  von 

Luxembourg or the Federal Republic of Germany (as 

Steuern  auferlegt,  erhoben,  eingezogen,  einbehalten 

the  case  may  be)  that  has  power  to  tax,  unless  the 

oder  festgesetzt  werden,  sofern  nicht  die  Emittentin 

Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  is  compelled  by  law  to  make 

oder die Garantin kraft Gesetzes oder einer sonstigen 

such  withholding  or  deduction.  If  the  Issuer  or  the 

Rechtsvorschrift  zu  einem  solchen  Einbehalt  oder 

Guarantor  is  required  to  make  such  withholding  or 

Abzug verpflichtet ist. Sofern die Emittentin oder die 

deduction,  the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  (as  the  case 

Garantin  zu  einem  solchen  Einbehalt  oder  Abzug 

may  be)  will  pay  such  additional  amounts  (the 

verpflichtet ist, wird die Emittentin bzw. die Garantin 

"Additional  Amounts")  to  the  Noteholders  as  the 

zusätzliche  Beträge  (die  "Zusätzlichen  Beträge")  an 

Noteholders  would  have 

received 

if  no  such 

die  Anleihegläubiger 

zahlen, 

so 

dass 

die 

withholding  or  deduction  had  been  required,  except 

Anleihegläubiger  die  Beträge  erhalten,  die  sie  ohne 

that  no  such Additional Amounts  will  be  payable  for 

den  betreffenden  Einbehalt  oder  Abzug  erhalten 

any such Taxes in respect of any Note, 

hätten. Solche Zusätzlichen Beträge sind jedoch nicht 

zahlbar  wegen  solcher  Steuern 

in  Bezug  auf 

Schuldverschreibungen, 

(a) 

die  wegen  einer  Verbindung  des  betreffenden 

(a) 

which are to be withheld or deducted by reason 

Anleihegläubigers 

zu  den  Niederlanden, 

of 

the  relevant  Noteholder  having  some 

Luxemburg 

bzw. 

der 

Bundesrepublik 

connection  with  the  Netherlands,  Luxembourg 

Deutschland,  die  nicht  nur  aus  der  bloßen 

or the Federal Republic of Germany other than 

Inhaberschaft 

der 

Schuldverschreibungen 

the mere holding of that Note; or  

besteht,  einzubehalten  oder  abzuziehen  sind; 

oder  

(b) 

deren 

Einbehalt 

oder 

Abzug 

ein 

(b) 

the  withholding  or  deduction  of  which  a 

Anleihegläubiger 

durch  Vorlage 

eines 

Noteholder  would  be  able 

to  avoid  by 

Formulars  oder  einer  Urkunde  und/oder  durch 

presenting  any  form  or  certificate  and/or 

Abgabe einer Nichtansässigkeitserklärung oder 

making  a  declaration  of  non-residence  or 

Inanspruchnahme 

einer 

vergleichbaren 

similar claim for exemption or refund but fails 

Ausnahme 

oder  Geltendmachung 

eines 

to do so; or 

Erstattungsanspruches 

hätte 

vermeiden 

können, aber nicht vermieden hat; oder 

(c) 

die  aufgrund 

(i)  einer  Richtlinie  oder 

(c) 

which are to be withheld or deducted pursuant 

Verordnung 

der 

Europäischen 

Union 

to  (i)  any  European  Union  Directive  or 

betreffend  die  Besteuerung  von  Zinserträgen 

Regulation  concerning  the  taxation  of  interest 

oder 

(ii) 

einer 

zwischenstaatlichen 

income,  or 

(ii)  any 

international 

treaty, 

Vereinbarung, 

eines 

zwischenstaatlichen 

agreement  or  understanding  relating  to  such 

Abkommens  oder  einer  zwischenstaatlichen 

taxation  and  to  which  the  Federal  Republic  of 

Verständigung  über  deren  Besteuerung,  an  der 

Germany or the European  Union is a party, or 

die  Bundesrepublik  Deutschland  oder  die 

(iii)  any  provision  of  law  implementing,  or 

Europäische Union beteiligt ist, oder (iii) einer 

complying  with,  or  introduced  to  conform 

gesetzlichen  Vorschrift,  die  diese  Richtlinie, 

with,  such  Directive,  Regulation, 

treaty, 

Verordnung,  Vereinbarung,  Abkommen  oder 

agreement or understanding; or 

Verständigung 

umsetzt 

oder 

befolgt, 

abzuziehen oder einzubehalten sind; oder 

61 

(d)  wenn die Einbehaltung oder der Abzug ab dem 

(d) 

if  withholding  or  deduction  is  required  to  be 

1. Januar  2021  gemäß  dem  niederländischen 

made  as  of  1 January  2021,  pursuant  to  the 

Quellensteuergesetz  2021  (Wet  bronbelasting 

Dutch  Withholding  Tax  Act  2021 

(Wet 

2021) vorgenommen werden muss. 

bronbelasting 2021). 

§ 7  Vorlegung, Verjährung 

§ 7 

Presentation, Prescription 

(a) 

Vorlegungsfrist.  Die  Vorlegungsfrist  gemäß 

(a) 

Presentation.  The  period  for  presentation  of 

§ 801  Absatz  1  Satz  1  BGB  für  fällige 

Notes due, as established in § 801 paragraph 1 

Schuldverschreibungen  wird  auf  zehn  Jahre 

sentence  1  of 

the  German  Civil  Code 

verkürzt. 

(Bürgerliches  Gesetzbuch),  is  reduced  to  ten 

years. 

(b) 

Verjährungsfrist.  Die  Verjährungsfrist 

für 

(b) 

Prescription.  The  period  for  prescription  for 

innerhalb  der  Vorlegungsfrist  zur  Zahlung 

Notes  presented  for  payment  during 

the 

vorgelegte Schuldverschreibungen beträgt zwei 

presentation  period  shall  be 

two  years 

Jahre  von  dem  Ende  der  betreffenden 

beginning  at 

the  end  of 

the 

relevant 

Vorlegungsfrist an. 

presentation period. 

§ 8  Kündigungsgründe für die Anleihegläubiger 

§ 8 

Events of Default 

(a) 

Kündigungsgründe.  Jeder Anleihegläubiger ist 

(a) 

Events  of  Default.  Each  Noteholder  will  be 

berechtigt, 

alle 

oder 

einzelne 

seiner 

entitled to declare all or some only of its Notes 

Schuldverschreibungen zu kündigen und deren 

due and demand immediate redemption of such 

sofortige  Rückzahlung  zu  ihrem  Festgelegten 

Notes  at  the  Principal  Amount  plus  accrued 

Nennbetrag zuzüglich etwaiger bis zu dem Tag 

interest to but excluding the date of redemption 

der 

Rückzahlung 

(ausschließlich) 

as provided hereinafter, if: 

aufgelaufener Zinsen zu verlangen, falls: 

(i) 

die Emittentin Kapital oder Zinsen oder 

(i) 

the  Issuer  fails  to  pay  principal  or 

eine 

andere 

Zahlung 

auf 

Schuldverschreibungen 

oder 

die 

die 

interest  or  any  other  amount  in  respect 

of  the  Notes  or  the  Guarantor  fails  to 

Garantin  eine  Zahlung  auf  die  Garantie 

pay  any  amount  in  respect  of  the 

nicht innerhalb von 15 Tagen nach dem 

Guarantee  within  15  days  from  the 

betreffenden Fälligkeitstag zahlt; 

relevant due date; 

(ii) 

die  Emittentin  oder  die  Garantin 

(ii) 

the Issuer or the Guarantor fails to duly 

irgendeine andere Verpflichtung aus den 

perform  any  other  obligation  arising 

Schuldverschreibungen 

oder 

der 

from  the  Notes  or  the  Guarantee  and 

Garantie  nicht  ordnungsgemäß  erfüllt 

such default, except  where  such default 

und  die  Unterlassung,  sofern  sie  nicht 

is 

incapable  of 

remedy,  continues 

unheilbar 

ist, 

länger  als  45  Tage 

unremedied for more than 45 days after 

fortdauert, nachdem die Emittentin oder 

the Issuer or the Guarantor (through the 

die  Garantin  (über  die  Hauptzahlstelle) 

Principal  Paying  Agent)  has  received 

hierüber  eine  Benachrichtigung  von 

notice thereof from a Noteholder; 

einem Anleihegläubiger erhalten hat;  

(iii) 

 

(iii) 

 

(A) 

eine  Finanzverbindlichkeit  der 

(A) 

any  Financial  Indebtedness  of 

Emittentin oder der Garantin  bei 

Fälligkeit  oder 

innerhalb  der 

zutreffenden  Nachfrist 

nicht 

erfüllt wird; oder 

the Issuer or the Guarantor is not 

paid  when  due  or  within  any 

applicable  grace  period,  as  the 

case may be; or 

62 

(B) 

eine  Finanzverbindlichkeit  der 

(B) 

any  Financial  Indebtedness  of 

Emittentin  oder  der  Garantin 

aufgrund  des  Vorliegens  einer 

Nichterfüllung 

oder 

eines 

Verzuges  vorzeitig  fällig  gestellt 

oder  anderweitig  vorzeitig  fällig 

wird; oder  

the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  is 

declared 

to  be  or  otherwise 

becomes  due  and  payable  prior 

to  its  specified  maturity  as  a 

result  of  an  event  of  default 

(however described); or 

(C) 

aufgrund  des  Eintritts  eines 

(C) 

any  security  granted  by 

the 

Ereignisses, 

das 

zur 

Durchsetzung  einer  von  der 

Emittentin  oder  der  Garantin  für 

eine 

Finanzverbindlichkeit 

gewährten  Sicherheit  berechtigt, 

eine solche Durchsetzung erklärt 

wird, 

Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  for  any 

Financial 

Indebtedness 

is 

declared  enforceable  upon  the 

occurrence  of  an  event  entitling 

to enforcement, 

wobei  kein Anleihegläubiger  berechtigt 

provided  that  no  Noteholder  will  be 

ist, seine Schuldverschreibungen gemäß 

entitled  to  declare  its  Notes  due  in 

diesem § 8(a)(iii) zu kündigen, falls der 

accordance  with  this  § 8(a)(iii)  if  the 

Gesamtbetrag 

aller 

unter 

die 

aggregate 

amount 

of 

Financial 

vorstehenden  Absätze 

(A)  bis 

(C) 

Indebtedness  falling  within  paragraphs 

fallenden 

Finanzverbindlichkeiten 

(A) 

to 

(C)  above 

is 

less 

than 

EUR 20.000.000 

(oder 

den 

EUR 20,000,000  (or  its  equivalent  in 

entsprechenden Gegenwert in einer oder 

any other currency or currencies); or 

mehreren 

anderen  Währung(en)) 

unterschreitet; oder 

(iv) 

die Emittentin oder die Garantin  

(iv) 

the Issuer or the Guarantor  

(A) 

zahlungsunfähig 

ist  oder 

ihre 

(A) 

is  unable  or  admits  its  inability 

Zahlungsunfähigkeit 

einräumt; 

to  pay  its  debts  as  they  fall  due; 

oder 

or 

(B) 

ihre Zahlungen einstellt; oder 

(B) 

suspends  making  payments  on 

any of its debts; or 

(v) 

ein  zuständiges  Gericht  gegen  die 

(v) 

a  competent  court  opens  insolvency 

Emittentin  oder  die  Garantin  ein 

proceedings  against  the  Issuer  or  the 

Insolvenzverfahren  eröffnet,  das  nicht 

Guarantor which has not been dismissed 

innerhalb  von  60  Tagen  nach  dessen 

or  stayed  within  60  days  after  the 

Eröffnung  aufgehoben  oder  ausgesetzt 

commencement thereof, or the Issuer or 

worden ist, oder die Emittentin oder die 

the  Guarantor 

institutes 

such 

a 

Garantin 

ein 

solches  Verfahren 

proceeding 

or  makes 

a 

general 

beantragt 

oder 

eine 

allgemeine 

arrangement  for  the  benefit  of  all  its 

Vereinbarung  zu  Gunsten  all 

ihrer 

creditors, or 

Gläubiger trifft, oder 

(vi) 

die  Emittentin  oder  die  Garantin  in 

(vi) 

the Issuer or the Guarantor is wound up, 

Liquidation 

tritt,  es  sei  denn,  dies 

unless  this  is  effected  in  connection 

geschieht  im  Zusammenhang  mit  einer 

with  a  merger  or  another  form  of 

Verschmelzung  oder  einer  anderen 

amalgamation with another company or 

Form des Zusammenschlusses mit einer 

in  connection  with  a  restructuring,  and 

63 

anderen 

Gesellschaft 

oder 

im 

the  other  or  the  new  company  assumes 

Zusammenhang  mit einer Umwandlung 

all  obligations  of  the  Issuer  arising 

und  die  andere  oder  neue  Gesellschaft 

under the Notes or the Guarantor arising 

übernimmt alle Verpflichtungen, die die 

under  the  Guarantee,  as  the  case  may 

Emittentin 

aus 

Schuldverschreibungen 

bzw. 

den 

die 

Garantin  aus  der  Garantie  eingegangen 

ist; 

be; 

(vii) 

in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland oder 

(vii)  any  law,  governmental  order,  decree  or 

in den Niederlanden oder in Luxemburg 

enactment  will  gain  recognition  in  the 

ein  Gesetz,  eine  Verordnung  oder 

Federal Republic of Germany or in The 

behördliche 

Anordnung 

Geltung 

Netherlands or in Luxembourg whereby 

erlangt,  durch  welche  die  Emittentin 

the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor  is  legally 

oder  die  Garantin  rechtlich  gehindert 

prevented 

from 

performing 

its 

ist, 

Verpflichtungen 

aus 

Schuldverschreibungen 

bzw. 

den 

der 

obligations under the Notes or under the 

Guarantee and this situation is not cured 

Garantie  zu  erfüllen,  und  diese  Lage 

within 90 days; or 

nicht binnen 90 Tagen behoben ist; oder 

(viii)  die  Garantie  mit 

rechtskräftiger 

(viii) 

the Guarantee is determined by the final 

Entscheidung 

eines 

zuständigen 

decision  of  a  competent  court  or  is 

Gerichts 

für  nicht  vollumfänglich 

claimed  by  the  Guarantor  not  to  be  in 

wirksam  erklärt  wird  oder  die  Garantin 

full force. 

einen  Mangel 

der  Wirksamkeit 

behauptet. 

Das  Kündigungsrecht  erlischt, 

falls  der 

The right to declare Notes due will terminate if 

Kündigungsgrund 

vor  Ausübung 

des 

the situation giving rise to it has been resolved 

Kündigungsrechts geheilt wurde. Vorbehaltlich 

before  such  right  is  exercised.  No  event  or 

anwendbaren  zwingenden  Rechts  berechtigen 

circumstance  other  than  an  event  specified  in 

andere  Ereignisse  oder  Umstände  als  die  in 

§ 8(a) shall entitle Noteholders to declare their 

§ 8(a)  genannten  die  Anleihegläubiger  nicht 

Notes  due  and  payable  prior  to  their  stated 

dazu, ihre Schuldverschreibungen vorzeitig zur 

maturity,  save  as  expressly  provided  for  in 

Rückzahlung fällig zu stellen, es sei denn, dies 

these  Terms  and  Conditions  and  subject  to 

ist ausdrücklich in diesen Anleihebedingungen 

applicable mandatory law. 

bestimmt. 

(b)  Quorum.  In  den  Fällen  gemäß  § 8(a)(ii) 

(b)  Quorum.  In  the  events  specified  in  § 8(a)(ii) 

und/oder 

§ 8(a)(iii) 

wird 

eine 

and/or  § 8(a)(iii),  any  notice  declaring  any 

Kündigungserklärung,  sofern  nicht  bei  deren 

Note due shall, unless at the time such notice is 

Eingang  zugleich  einer  der  in Absatz  § 8(a)(i) 

received any of the events specified in § 8(a)(i) 

oder 

§ 8(a)(iv) 

bis 

(viii) 

bezeichneten 

or 

§ 8(a)(iv) 

through 

(viii) 

entitling 

Kündigungsgründe  vorliegt,  erst  wirksam, 

Noteholders  to  declare  their  Notes  due  has 

wenn 

bei 

der 

Hauptzahlstelle 

occurred,  become  effective  only  when  the 

Kündigungserklärungen 

Anleihegläubigern 

im  Nennbetrag 

von 

von 

Principal  Paying  Agent  has  received  such 

default 

notices 

from 

the  Noteholders 

mindestens  10 %  des  Gesamtnennbetrages  der 

representing  at  least  10  per  cent.  of  the 

zu 

diesem  Zeitpunkt 

noch 

insgesamt 

aggregate  principal  amount  of  Notes  then 

ausstehenden 

Schuldverschreibungen 

outstanding. 

eingegangen sind. 

64 

(c) 

Kündigungserklärung.  Eine  Kündigung  der 

(c) 

Notice.  Any  notice  declaring  Notes  due  in 

Schuldverschreibungen  gemäß  § 8(a) 

ist 

accordance with § 8(a) will be made by means 

schriftlich 

in  deutscher  oder  englischer 

of  a  written  declaration  in  German  or  English 

Sprache  gegenüber  der  Hauptzahlstelle  zu 

delivered  by  hand  or  registered  mail  to  the 

erklären  und  persönlich  oder  per  Einschreiben 

specified  office  of  the  Principal  Paying Agent 

an  deren  bezeichnete  Geschäftsstelle  zu 

together with proof that such Noteholder at the 

übermitteln.  Der  Benachrichtigung 

ist  ein 

time  of  such  notice  is  a  holder  of  the  relevant 

Nachweis  beizufügen,  aus  dem  sich  ergibt, 

Notes by means of a certificate of its Custodian 

dass  der  betreffende  Anleihegläubiger  zum 

or in any other appropriate manner. 

Zeitpunkt  der  Abgabe  der  Benachrichtigung 

Inhaber  der  betreffenden  Schuldverschreibung 

ist.  Der  Nachweis 

kann 

durch 

eine 

Bescheinigung der Depotbank oder auf andere 

geeignete Weise erbracht werden. 

(d)  Definitionen. 

(d)  Definitions. 

"Depotbank"  bezeichnet  ein  Bank-  oder 

"Custodian" means any bank or other financial 

sonstiges  Finanzinstitut, 

bei 

dem 

der 

institution  with  which 

the  Noteholder 

Anleihegläubiger  Schuldverschreibungen 

in 

maintains a securities account in respect of any 

seinem  Wertpapierdepotkonto  verwahren  lässt 

Notes  and  having  an  account  maintained  with 

und das ein Konto bei dem Clearingsystem hat, 

the Clearing System and includes the  Clearing 

und schließt das Clearingsystem ein. 

System.  

"Finanzverbindlichkeit" 

bezeichnet 

jede 

"Financial  Indebtedness"  means  any  present 

gegenwärtige 

oder 

zukünftige 

or  future  indebtedness  for  or  in  respect  of 

Zahlungsverpflichtung  im  Zusammenhang  mit 

monies borrowed or raised.  

einer Kredit- oder sonstigen Geldaufnahme. 

§ 9  Hauptzahlstelle, Zahlstelle(n)  

§ 9 

Principal Paying Agent, Paying Agent(s)  

(a) 

Bestellung;  bezeichnete  Geschäftsstelle.  Die 

(a) 

Appointment;  specified  office.  The  Principal 

Hauptzahlstelle 

ist  nachstehend  mit  der 

Paying  Agent  and  its  initial  specified  offices 

benannten 

anfänglichen 

Geschäftsstelle 

are as follows: 

aufgeführt: 

Hauptzahlstelle: 

Principal Paying Agent: 

BNP Paribas Securities Services S.C.A. 

BNP Paribas Securities Services S.C.A. 

Zweigniederlassung Frankfurt 

Europa Allee 12 

60327 Frankfurt am Main 

Deutschland 

Zweigniederlassung Frankfurt 

Europa Allee 12 

60327 Frankfurt am Main 

Germany 

(b) 

Änderung 

der 

Bestellung 

oder 

(b) 

Variation  or  termination  of  appointment.  The 

Abberufung.  Die  Emittentin  behält  sich  das 

Issuer reserves the right at any time to appoint 

Recht  vor,  jederzeit  zusätzliche  Zahlstellen 

additional  paying  agents  (together  with  the 

(gemeinsam  mit  der  Hauptzahlstelle,  die 

Principal  Paying  Agent,  the  "Paying  Agents" 

"Zahlstellen"  und  jede  eine  "Zahlstelle")  zu 

and each a "Paying Agent").  

benennen.  

Auf 

keinen 

Fall 

dürfen 

sich 

die 

In  no  event  will  the  specified  office  of  any 

Geschäftsräume  einer  Zahlstelle  innerhalb  der 

Paying Agent be within the United States. 

Vereinigten Staaten befinden. 

65 

Die  Emittentin  behält  sich  ferner  das  Recht 

The Issuer further reserves the right at any time 

vor, die Ernennung der Hauptzahlstelle und der 

to  vary  or  terminate  the  appointment  of  the 

Zahlstellen  jederzeit  anders  zu  regeln  oder  zu 

Principal Paying Agent and the Paying Agent. 

beenden. 

Die  Emittentin  wird 

sicherstellen,  dass 

The  Issuer  will  at  all  times  maintain  (i) a 

jederzeit  (i) eine  Hauptzahlstelle  und  (ii)  so 

Principal  Paying Agent  and  (ii)  so  long  as  the 

lange  die  Schuldverschreibungen  an  einer 

Notes are listed on a stock exchange, a Paying 

Börse notiert werden, eine Zahlstelle mit einer 

Agent  with  a  specified  office  in  such  city  as 

benannten  Geschäftsstelle  an  dem  von  der 

may  be  required  by  the  rules  of  the  relevant 

betreffenden  Börse  vorgeschriebenen  Ort 

stock  exchange.  The  Principal  Paying  Agent 

bestimmt  ist.  Die  Hauptzahlstelle  und  etwaige 

and  any  Paying Agent  reserve  the  right  at  any 

Zahlstellen  behalten  sich  das  Recht  vor, 

time 

to  change 

their  respective  specified 

jederzeit  anstelle 

ihrer 

jeweils  benannten 

offices  to  some  other  specified  office  in  the 

Geschäftsstelle  eine  andere  Geschäftsstelle  in 

same  city.  Notice  of  all  changes  in  the 

derselben 

Stadt 

zu 

bestimmen. 

identities  or  specified  offices  of  the  Principal 

Bekanntmachungen 

hinsichtlich 

aller 

Paying  Agent  and  any  Paying  Agent  will  be 

Veränderungen 

im  Hinblick 

auf 

die 

given  promptly  by 

the 

Issuer 

to 

the 

Hauptzahlstelle 

und 

etwaige  Zahlstellen 

Noteholders in accordance with § 11. 

erfolgen  unverzüglich  durch  die  Emittentin 

gemäß § 11. 

(c) 

Erfüllungsgehilfen 

der 

Emittentin.  Die 

(c) 

Agents  of  the  Issuer.  The  Principal  Paying 

Hauptzahlstelle  und  die  Zahlstellen  handeln 

Agent  and  the  Paying  Agents  act  solely  as 

ausschließlich  als  Beauftragte  der  Emittentin 

agents  of  the  Issuer  and  do  not  assume  any 

und  übernehmen  keinerlei  Verpflichtungen 

obligations  towards  or  relationship  of  agency 

gegenüber dem Anleihegläubiger; es wird kein 

or trust for the Noteholder. 

Auftrags-  oder  Treuhandverhältnis  zwischen 

ihnen und dem Anleihegläubiger begründet. 

§ 10  Schuldnerersetzung 

(a) 

Ersetzung. 

§ 10  Substitution 

(a) 

Substitution. 

Die  Emittentin  ist  jederzeit  berechtigt,  ohne 

The  Issuer  may  at  any  time,  without  the 

Zustimmung 

der  Anleihegläubiger, 

die 

consent  of  the  Noteholders,  substitute  for  the 

Garantin  oder  eine  andere  Gesellschaft,  die 

Issuer  either  the  Guarantor  or  any  other 

direkt  oder 

indirekt  von  der  Garantin 

company  which 

is  directly  or 

indirectly 

kontrolliert  wird,  als  neue  Emittentin  für  alle 

controlled by the Guarantor as new issuer (the 

sich  aus  oder  im  Zusammenhang  mit  den 

"New  Issuer")  in  respect  of  all  obligations 

Schuldverschreibungen 

ergebenden 

arising  under  or  in  connection  with  the  Notes 

Verpflichtungen 

mit 

schuldbefreiender 

with  the  effect  of  releasing  the  Issuer  of  all 

Wirkung  für  die  Emittentin  an  die  Stelle  der 

such obligations, if: 

Emittentin zu setzen (die "Neue Emittentin"), 

sofern 

(i) 

die  Neue 

Emittentin 

sämtliche 

(i) 

the  New  Issuer  assumes  any  and  all 

Verpflichtungen der Emittentin aus oder 

obligations  of  the  Issuer  arising  under 

im 

Zusammenhang 

mit 

den 

or  in  connection  with  the  Notes  and,  if 

Schuldverschreibungen übernimmt und, 

service  of  process  vis-à-vis  the  New 

sofern  eine  Zustellung  an  die  Neue 

Issuer would have to be effected outside 

Emittentin 

außerhalb 

der 

the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany, 

66 

Bundesrepublik  Deutschland  erfolgen 

appoints  a  process  agent  within  the 

müsste, 

einen 

Federal Republic of Germany; 

Zustellungsbevollmächtigten 

in 

der 

Bundesrepublik Deutschland bestellt; 

(ii) 

die Emittentin und die Neue  Emittentin 

(ii) 

the  Issuer  and  the  New  Issuer  have 

sämtliche  für  die  Schuldnerersetzung 

obtained 

all 

authorisations 

and 

und  die  Erfüllung  der  Verpflichtungen 

approvals necessary  for the substitution 

aus  oder  im  Zusammenhang  mit  den 

and  the  fulfilment  of  the  obligations 

Schuldverschreibungen  erforderlichen 

arising  under  or  in  connection  with  the 

Genehmigungen erhalten haben; 

Notes; 

(iii) 

die  Neue  Emittentin  in  der  Lage  ist, 

(iii) 

the New Issuer is in the position to pay 

sämtliche  zur  Erfüllung  der  aufgrund 

to 

the  Clearing  System  or 

to 

the 

der Schuldverschreibungen bestehenden 

Principal Paying Agent in the Specified 

Zahlungsverpflichtungen  erforderlichen 

Currency  and  without  deducting  or 

Beträge in der Festgelegten Währung an 

withholding any taxes or other duties of 

das 

Clearingsystem 

oder 

die 

whatever  nature  imposed,  levied  or 

Hauptzahlstelle  zu  zahlen,  und  zwar 

deducted  by  the  country  (or  countries) 

ohne Abzug oder Einbehalt von Steuern 

in  which 

the  New  Issuer  has 

its 

oder  sonstigen  Abgaben  jedweder  Art, 

domicile  or  tax  residence  all  amounts 

die  von  dem  Land  (oder  den  Ländern), 

required  for  the  performance  of  the 

in  dem  (in  denen)  die  Neue  Emittentin 

payment  obligations  arising  from  or  in 

ihren Sitz oder Steuersitz hat, auferlegt, 

connection with the Notes; and 

erhoben oder eingezogen werden; und 

(iv) 

die Garantin (außer in dem Fall, dass sie 

(iv) 

the  Guarantor  (except  in  the  case  that 

selbst 

die  Neue  Emittentin 

ist) 

the  Guarantor  itself  is  the  New  Issuer) 

unbedingt  und  unwiderruflich  die 

irrevocably 

and 

unconditionally 

Verpflichtungen  der  Neuen  Emittentin 

guarantees such obligations of the New 

aus  den  Schuldverschreibungen  zu 

Issuer  under  the  Notes  on  terms  which 

Bedingungen 

garantiert, 

sicherstellen, 

dass 

die 

jeder 

ensure that each Noteholder will be put 

in  an  economic  position  that  is  at  least 

Anleihegläubiger 

wirtschaftlich 

as favourable as that which would have 

mindestens so gestellt wird, wie er ohne 

existed if the substitution had not taken 

die Ersetzung stehen würde. 

place. 

(b) 

Bezugnahmen. 

(b) 

References. 

Im  Fall  einer  Schuldnerersetzung  gemäß 

In  the  event  of  a  substitution  pursuant  to 

§ 10(a)  gilt 

jede  Bezugnahme 

in  diesen 

§ 10(a),  any  reference  in  these  Terms  and 

Anleihebedingungen  auf  die  Emittentin  als 

Conditions to the Issuer shall be a reference to 

eine solche auf die Neue Emittentin. 

the New Issuer. 

Im  Fall  einer  Schuldnerersetzung  gilt  jede 

In  the  event  of  a  substitution  any  reference  to 

Bezugnahme  auf  die  Niederlande  als  eine 

the Netherlands shall be a reference to the New 

solche  auf  den  Staat,  in  welchem  die  Neue 

Issuer's country of domicile for tax purposes. 

Emittentin steuerlich ansässig ist. 

(c) 

Bekanntmachung  und  Wirksamwerden  der 

(c) 

Notice 

and 

effectiveness 

of 

Ersetzung.  Die  Ersetzung  der  Emittentin  ist 

substitution.  Notice  of  any  substitution  of  the 

gemäß  § 11  bekanntzumachen.  Mit  der 

Issuer  shall  be  given  by  notice  in  accordance 

Bekanntmachung  der  Ersetzung  wird  die 

with  § 11.  Upon 

such  publication, 

the 

67 

Ersetzung  wirksam  und  die  Emittentin  und  im 

substitution  shall  become  effective,  and  the 

Fall  einer  wiederholten  Anwendung  dieses 

Issuer  and 

in 

the  event  of  a  repeated 

§ 10  jede  frühere  Neue  Emittentin  von  ihren 

application  of  this  § 10,  any  previous  New 

sämtlichen 

Verpflichtungen 

aus 

den 

Issuer  shall  be  discharged  from  any  and  all 

Schuldverschreibungen  frei.  Im  Fall  einer 

obligations under the Notes. In the case of such 

solchen  Schuldnerersetzung  wird  (werden)  die 

substitution,  the  stock  exchange(s),  if  any,  on 

Wertpapierbörse(n)  informiert,  an  der  (denen) 

which the Notes are then listed will be notified. 

die Schuldverschreibungen dann notiert sind. 

§ 11  Bekanntmachungen 

§ 11  Notices 

(a) 

Veröffentlichungen.  Alle  Bekanntmachungen, 

(a) 

Publications.  All  notices  regarding  the  Notes 

die  die  Schuldverschreibungen  betreffen, 

will  be  published  (so  long  as  the  Notes  are 

werden (solange die Schuldverschreibungen an 

listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange) on 

der Luxemburger Wertpapierbörse notiert sind) 

the  website  of 

the  Luxembourg  Stock 

auf  der  Internet-Seite  der  Luxemburger  Börse 

Exchange  on  www.bourse.lu.  Any  notice  will 

unter  www.bourse.lu  veröffentlicht. 

Jede 

become  effective  for  all  purposes  on  the  date 

Mitteilung 

gilt 

am  Tag 

der 

ersten 

of the first such publication. 

Veröffentlichung als wirksam erfolgt. 

(b)  Mitteilungen  an  das  Clearingsystem.  Solange 

(b) 

Notification  to  Clearing  System.  So  long  as 

Schuldverschreibungen  an  der  Luxemburger 

any Notes are listed on the Luxembourg Stock 

Börse  notiert  sind,  findet  § 11(a) Anwendung. 

Exchange,  § 11(a)  shall  apply.  If  the  Rules  of 

Soweit die Regeln der Luxemburger Börse dies 

the  Luxembourg  Stock  Exchange  so  permit, 

zulassen, 

kann 

die 

Emittentin 

eine 

the Issuer may deliver the relevant notice to the 

Veröffentlichung  nach  § 11(a)  durch  eine 

Clearing  System  for  communication  by  the 

Mitteilung 

an 

das  Clearingsystem 

zur 

Clearing System to the  Noteholders, in lieu of 

Weiterleitung 

an 

die  Anleihegläubiger 

publication  as  set  forth  in  § 11(a)  above;  any 

ersetzen;  jede  derartige  Mitteilung  gilt  am 

such  notice  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been 

fünften  Tag  nach  dem  Tag  der  Mitteilung  an 

validly  given  on  the  fifth  day  after  the  day  on 

das  Clearingsystem  als  den Anleihegläubigern 

which the said notice was given to the Clearing 

mitgeteilt. 

(c)  Mitteilungen 

Anleihegläubigers.  Mitteilungen, 

die 

System. 

des 

von 

(c) 

Notices  by  a  Noteholder.  Notices  to  be  given 

by  any  Noteholder  shall  be  made  in  written 

einem  Anleihegläubiger  gemacht  werden, 

form 

together  with  an  evidence  of 

the 

müssen schriftlich erfolgen und zusammen mit 

Noteholder's  entitlement  in  accordance  with 

dem  Nachweis  seiner  Inhaberschaft  gemäß 

§ 14 (c)(i) to the Principal Paying Agent. Such 

§ 14(c)(i)  an  die  Hauptzahlstelle  geleitet 

notice  may  be  given  through  the  Clearing 

werden.  Eine  solche  Mitteilung  kann  über  das 

System in such manner as the Principal Paying 

Clearingsystem  in  der  von  der  Hauptzahlstelle 

Agent  and  the  Clearing  System  may  approve 

und  dem  Clearingsystem  dafür  vorgesehenen 

for such purpose. 

Weise erfolgen. 

§ 12  Begebung weiterer Schuldverschreibungen 

§ 12  Further Issues 

Die  Emittentin  behält  sich  das  Recht  vor,  ohne 

The  Issuer  reserves  the  right  from  time  to  time, 

Zustimmung 

der 

Anleihegläubiger 

weitere 

without  the  consent  of  the  Noteholders  to  issue 

Schuldverschreibungen  mit  gleicher  Ausstattung 

additional notes with identical terms and conditions as 

(gegebenenfalls  mit  Ausnahme  des  Tags  der 

the Notes in all respects (or in all respects except  for 

Begebung,  des  Verzinsungsbeginns  und/oder  des 

the  date  of  issue,  the  interest  commencement  date 

Ausgabepreises) 

wie 

die 

vorliegenden 

and/or  the  issue  price)  so  as  to  be  consolidated  and 

Schuldverschreibungen  zu  begeben,  so  dass  sie  mit 

form  a  single  series  with  such  Notes.  The  term 

68 

diesen  eine  einheitliche  Serie  bilden.  Der  Begriff 

"Notes"  shall,  in  the  event  of  such  further  issue,  also 

"Schuldverschreibungen"  umfasst 

im  Fall  einer 

comprise such further notes. 

solchen  weiteren  Begebung  auch  solche  zusätzlich 

begebenen Schuldverschreibungen. 

§ 13  Änderung 

der 

Anleihebedingungen; 

§ 13  Amendments  to  the  Terms  and  Conditions; 

Gemeinsamer  Vertreter,  Änderung  der 

Joint  Representative,  Amendments  to  the 

Garantie 

Guarantee 

(a) 

Änderung 

der 

Anleihebedingungen.  Die 

(a) 

Amendment of the Terms and Conditions.  The 

Emittentin  kann  die  Anleihebedingungen  mit 

Issuer  may  amend  the  Terms  and  Conditions 

Zustimmung  aufgrund  Mehrheitsbeschlusses 

with the consent of a majority resolution of the 

der  Anleihegläubiger  nach  Maßgabe  der 

Noteholders  pursuant  to  §§ 5  et  seq.  of  the 

§§ 5 ff.  SchVG  ändern.  Eine  Änderung  der 

SchVG.  There  will  be  no  amendment  of  the 

Anleihebedingungen  ohne  Zustimmung  der 

Terms  and  Conditions  without  the  Issuer's 

Emittentin scheidet aus. 

consent. 

Die  Anleihegläubiger  können 

insbesondere 

In  particular,  the  Noteholders  may  consent  to 

einer  Änderung  wesentlicher 

Inhalte  der 

amendments  which  materially  change 

the 

Anleihebedingungen,  einschließlich  der  in  § 5 

substance  of 

the  Terms  and  Conditions, 

Absatz 3  SchVG  vorgesehenen  Maßnahmen 

including such measures as provided for under 

mit  Ausnahme  der  Ersetzung  der  Emittentin, 

§ 5(3)  of 

the  SchVG,  but  excluding  a 

die in § 10 abschließend geregelt ist, mit den in 

substitution of the Issuer,  which is exclusively 

dem 

nachstehenden 

§ 13(b) 

genannten 

subject to the provisions in § 10, by resolutions 

Mehrheiten  zustimmen.  Ein  ordnungsgemäß 

passed  by  such  majority  of  the  votes  of  the 

gefasster  Mehrheitsbeschluss 

ist 

für  alle 

Noteholders  as  stated  under  § 13(b)  below.  A 

Anleihegläubiger verbindlich. 

duly passed majority resolution will be binding 

upon all Noteholders. 

(b)  Mehrheitserfordernisse.  Vorbehaltlich 

des 

(b)  Majority  requirements.  Except  as  provided by 

nachstehenden  Satzes  und  der  Erreichung  der 

the  following  sentence  and  provided  that  the 

erforderlichen  Beschlussfähigkeit,  beschließen 

quorum  requirements  are  being  met, 

the 

die  Anleihegläubiger  mit  der  einfachen 

Noteholders  may  pass  resolutions  by  simple 

Mehrheit 

der 

an 

der  Abstimmung 

majority  of  the  voting  rights  participating  in 

teilnehmenden Stimmrechte. Beschlüsse, durch 

the  vote.  Resolutions  which  materially  change 

welche 

der  wesentliche 

Inhalt 

der 

the  substance  of  the  Terms  and  Conditions, 

Anleihebedingungen, 

insbesondere 

in  den 

particularly  in  the  cases  of  § 5(3)  numbers  1 

Fällen  des  § 5  Absatz 3  Nummer 1  bis  9 

through  9  of  the  SchVG,  may  only  be  passed 

SchVG,  geändert  wird,  bedürfen  zu  ihrer 

by  a  majority  of  at  least  75 per  cent.  of  the 

Wirksamkeit  einer  Mehrheit  von  mindestens 

voting  rights  participating  in  the  vote  (a 

75 %  der  an  der  Abstimmung  teilnehmenden 

"Qualified  Majority").  The  voting  right  is 

Stimmrechte  (eine  "Qualifizierte  Mehrheit"). 

suspended as long as any Notes are attributable 

Das 

Stimmrecht 

ruht, 

solange 

die 

to the Issuer or any of its affiliates (within the 

Schuldverschreibungen  der  Emittentin  oder 

meaning  of  § 271(2)  of 

the  German 

einem  mit 

ihr  verbundenen  Unternehmen 

Commercial Code (Handelsgesetzbuch)) or are 

(§ 271  Absatz  2  HGB)  zustehen  oder  für 

being held for the account of the Issuer or any 

Rechnung  der  Emittentin  oder  eines  mit  ihr 

of its affiliates. 

verbundenen Unternehmens gehalten werden. 

(c) 

Beschlüsse.  Beschlüsse  der  Anleihegläubiger 

(c) 

Resolutions.  Resolutions  of  the  Noteholders 

werden 

entweder 

in 

einer 

will  be  made  either  in  a  Noteholders'  meeting 

Gläubigerversammlung nach § 13(c)(i) oder im 

in accordance with § 13(c)(i) or by means of a 

69 

Wege  der  Abstimmung  ohne  Versammlung 

vote  without  a  meeting  (Abstimmung  ohne 

nach  § 13(c)(ii)  getroffen,  die  von  der 

Versammlung)  in  accordance  with  § 13(c)(ii), 

Emittentin  oder  einem  gemeinsamen  Vertreter 

in either case convened by the Issuer or a joint 

einberufen  wird.  Anleihegläubiger,  deren 

representative, 

if  any.  Pursuant 

to  § 9(1) 

Schuldverschreibungen  zusammen  5 %  des 

sentence 2 of the SchVG, Noteholders holding 

jeweils  ausstehenden  Gesamtnennbetrags  der 

Notes in the total amount of  5 per cent. of the 

Schuldverschreibungen 

erreichen, 

können 

outstanding principal amount of the Notes may 

gemäß § 9 Absatz 1 S. 2 SchVG schriftlich die 

in  writing  request  to  convene  a  Noteholders' 

Einberufung 

Anleihegläubigerversammlung 

einer 

oder 

meeting  or  vote  without  a  meeting  for  any  of 

the  reasons  permitted  pursuant 

to  § 9(1) 

Abstimmung  ohne  Versammlung  mit  einer 

sentence 2 of the SchVG. 

gemäß  § 9  Absatz  1  S.  2  SchVG  zulässigen 

Begründung verlangen. 

(i) 

Beschlüsse  der  Anleihegläubiger 

im 

(i) 

Resolutions  of  the  Noteholders  in  a 

Rahmen  einer  Gläubigerversammlung 

Noteholders'  meeting  will  be  made  in 

werden  nach  §§ 9  ff.  SchVG  getroffen. 

accordance  with  § 9  et  seq.  of  the 

Die 

Einberufung 

Gläubigerversammlung 

regelt 

weiteren 

Einzelheiten 

der 

die 

der 

SchVG.  The  convening  notice  of  a 

Noteholders'  meeting  will  provide  the 

further details relating to the resolutions 

Beschlussfassung und der Abstimmung. 

and  the  voting  procedure.  The  subject 

Mit 

der 

Einberufung 

der 

matter  of  the  vote  as  well  as  the 

Gläubigerversammlung  werden  in  der 

proposed  resolutions  will  be  notified  to 

Tagesordnung 

Beschlussgegenstände 

sowie 

die 

die 

Vorschläge  zur  Beschlussfassung  den 

Anleihegläubigern bekannt gegeben.  

Noteholders 

in 

the  agenda  of 

the 

meeting.  

(ii) 

Beschlüsse  der  Anleihegläubiger 

im 

(ii) 

Resolutions  of 

the  Noteholders  by 

Wege 

der 

Abstimmung 

ohne 

means  of  a  voting  not  requiring  a 

Versammlung werden nach § 18 SchVG 

physical  meeting  (Abstimmung  ohne 

getroffen.  Die  Aufforderung 

Stimmabgabe 

durch 

zur 

den 

Versammlung)  will  be  made 

in 

accordance  § 18  of  the  SchVG.  The 

Abstimmungsleiter  regelt  die  weiteren 

request  for  voting  as  submitted  by  the 

Einzelheiten  der  Beschlussfassung  und 

chairman 

(Abstimmungsleiter)  will 

der Abstimmung. Mit der Aufforderung 

provide  the  further  details  relating  to 

zur 

Stimmabgabe 

werden 

Beschlussgegenstände 

sowie 

die 

die 

the 

resolutions 

and 

the 

voting 

procedure.  The  subject  matter  of  the 

Vorschläge  zur  Beschlussfassung  den 

vote as well as the proposed resolutions 

Anleihegläubigern bekannt gegeben. 

will be notified to Noteholders together 

with the request for voting. 

(d) 

Zweite  Gläubigerversammlung.  Wird 

die 

(d) 

Second 

noteholders'  meeting.  If 

it 

is 

Beschlussfähigkeit  bei  der  Abstimmung  ohne 

ascertained  that  no  quorum  exists  for  the  vote 

Versammlung 

nach 

§ 13(c)(ii) 

nicht 

without  meeting  pursuant  to  § 13(c)(ii),  the 

festgestellt,  kann  der  Abstimmungsleiter  eine 

chairman  (Abstimmungsleiter)  may  convene  a 

Gläubigerversammlung  einberufen,  welche  als 

meeting, which shall be deemed to be a second 

zweite  Gläubigerversammlung  im  Sinne  des 

meeting  within 

the  meaning  of  § 15(3) 

§ 15 Absatz 3 Satz 3 SchVG gilt. 

sentence 3 of the SchVG. 

(e) 

Anmeldung.  Die Stimmrechtsausübung ist von 

(e) 

Registration.  The  exercise  of  voting  rights  is 

einer 

vorherigen 

Anmeldung 

der 

subject  to  the  registration  of  the  Noteholders. 

70 

Anleihegläubiger  abhängig.  Die  Anmeldung 

The  registration  must  be  received  at  the 

muss  bis 

zum  dritten  Tag  vor  der 

address stated in the request for voting no later 

Gläubigerversammlung 

im 

Falle 

einer 

than  the  third  day  prior  to  the  meeting  in  the 

Gläubigerversammlung  (wie  in  § 13(c)(i)  oder 

case of a Noteholders' meeting (as described in 

§ 13(d) beschrieben) bzw. vor dem Beginn des 

§ 13(c)(i)  or  § 13(d))  or  the  beginning  of  the 

Abstimmungszeitraums 

im 

Falle 

einer 

voting  period  in  the  case  of  voting  not 

Abstimmung  ohne  Versammlung 

(wie 

in 

requiring  a  physical  meeting  (as  described  in 

§ 13(c)(ii)  beschrieben)  unter  der 

in  der 

§ 13(c)(ii)), as the case may  be. As part of the 

Aufforderung  zur  Stimmabgabe  angegebenen 

registration,  Noteholders  must  demonstrate 

Anschrift 

zugehen.  Zusammen  mit  der 

their  eligibility  to  participate  in  the  vote  by 

Anmeldung  müssen  Anleihegläubiger  den 

means  of  a  special  confirmation  of  their 

Nachweis ihrer Berechtigung zur Teilnahme an 

respective  custodian  bank  hereof  in  text  form 

der  Abstimmung  durch 

eine  besondere 

and by submission of a blocking instruction by 

Bescheinigung  ihrer  Depotbank  in  Textform 

the  custodian  bank  stating  that  the  relevant 

und  die  Vorlage  eines  Sperrvermerks  der 

Notes  are  not  transferable  from  and  including 

Depotbank  erbringen,  aus  dem  hervorgeht, 

the  day  such  registration  has  been  sent  until 

dass die relevanten Schuldverschreibungen für 

and including the stated end  of the  meeting or 

den  Zeitraum  vom  Tag  der  Absendung  der 

day the voting period ends, as the case may be. 

Anmeldung 

(einschließlich)  bis  zu  dem 

angegebenen 

Ende 

der  Versammlung 

(einschließlich) 

bzw. 

dem  Ende 

des 

Abstimmungszeitraums  (einschließlich)  nicht 

übertragen werden können. 

(f) 

Gemeinsamer  Vertreter.  Die  Anleihegläubiger 

(f) 

Joint  representative.  The  Noteholders  may  by 

können 

durch  Mehrheitsbeschluss 

die 

majority 

resolution 

provide 

for 

the 

Bestellung 

und 

Abberufung 

eines 

appointment 

or 

dismissal 

of 

a 

joint 

gemeinsamen  Vertreters,  die  Aufgaben  und 

representative,  the  duties  and  responsibilities 

Befugnisse  des  gemeinsamen  Vertreters,  die 

and the powers of such joint representative, the 

Übertragung von Rechten der Anleihegläubiger 

transfer of the  rights of the Noteholders to the 

auf  den  gemeinsamen  Vertreter  und  eine 

joint representative and a limitation of liability 

Beschränkung  der  Haftung  des  gemeinsamen 

of  the  joint  representative.  Appointment  of  a 

Vertreters  bestimmen.  Die  Bestellung  eines 

joint  representative  may  only  be  passed  by  a 

gemeinsamen 

Vertreters 

bedarf 

einer 

Qualified  Majority  if  such  joint  representative 

Qualifizierten  Mehrheit,  wenn  er  ermächtigt 

is  to  be  authorised  to  consent  to  a  material 

wird, 

wesentlichen 

Änderungen 

der 

change  in  the  substance  of  the  Terms  and 

Anleihebedingungen 

gemäß 

§ 13(a) 

Conditions in accordance with § 13(a) hereof. 

zuzustimmen. 

(g) 

Bekanntmachungen.  Bekanntmachungen 

(g) 

Notices.  Any notices concerning this § 13 will 

betreffend  diesen  § 13  erfolgen  gemäß  den 

be  made  in  accordance  with  § 5  et  seq.  of  the 

§§ 5ff. SchVG sowie nach § 11. 

SchVG and § 11. 

(h)   Änderung 

der 

Garantie.  Die 

oben 

(h)   Amendments to the Guarantee.  The provisions 

aufgeführten 

auf 

die  Änderung 

der 

set  out  above  applicable  to  the  amendment  of 

Anleihebedingungen 

anwendbaren 

the  Terms  and  Conditions  shall  apply  mutatis 

Bestimmungen  finden  sinngemäß  auf  die 

mutandis to the Guarantee. 

Bestimmungen der Garantie Anwendung. 

(i) 

Zuständiges  Gericht.  Für  Entscheidungen 

(i) 

Competent 

court.  The 

local 

court 

gemäß  § 9  Absatz  2,  § 13  Absatz  3  und  § 18 

(Amtsgericht)  of  Frankfurt  am  Main  will  have 

Absatz  2  SchVG  ist  gemäß  § 9  Absatz  3 

jurisdiction  for  all  judgments  pursuant  to 

71 

SchVG  das  Amtsgericht  Frankfurt  am  Main 

§ 9(2),  § 13(3)  and  § 18(2)  SchVG 

in 

zuständig.  Für  Entscheidungen  über  die 

accordance  with  § 9(3)  SchVG.  The  regional 

Anfechtung 

von 

Beschlüssen 

der 

court  (Landgericht)  Frankfurt  am  Main  will 

Anleihegläubiger  ist  gemäß  § 20  Absatz  3 

have  exclusive  jurisdiction  for  all  judgments 

SchVG  das  Landgericht  Frankfurt  am  Main 

over  contested  resolutions  by  Noteholders  in 

ausschließlich zuständig. 

accordance with § 20(3) SchVG. 

§ 14  Anwendbares  Recht,  Erfüllungsort  und 

§ 14  Applicable  Law,  Place  of  Performance  and 

Gerichtsstand  

Jurisdiction 

(a) 

Geltendes  Recht;  Erfüllungsort.  Form  und 

(a) 

Applicable  law;  place  of  performance.  The 

Inhalt  der  Schuldverschreibungen  sowie  alle 

form and content of the Notes as well as all the 

sich  daraus  ergebenden  Rechte  und  Pflichten 

rights  and  duties  arising 

therefrom  are 

bestimmen sich ausschließlich nach dem Recht 

governed  exclusively  by  the  laws  of  the 

der Bundesrepublik Deutschland. Erfüllungsort 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany.  Place  of 

ist Frankfurt am Main. 

performance is Frankfurt am Main. 

(b)  Gerichtsstand.  Nicht-ausschließlicher 

Ge-

(b) 

Jurisdiction.  Non-exclusive court of venue for 

richtsstand  für  alle  sich  aus  den  in  diesen 

all  litigation  with  the  Issuer  arising  from  the 

Anleihebedingungen 

Rechtsverhältnissen 

geregelten 

ergebenden 

Rechtsstreitigkeiten  mit  der  Emittentin 

ist 

Frankfurt am Main. 

legal  relations  established  in  these  Terms  and 

Conditions is Frankfurt am Main. 

Dies  gilt  nur  vorbehaltlich  eines  zwingenden 

This is subject to any exclusive court of venue 

Gerichtsstandes 

für 

besondere 

for  specific  legal  proceedings  in  connection 

Rechtsstreitigkeiten  im  Zusammenhang  mit 

with  the  German  Act  on  Issues  of  Debt 

dem  Gesetz  über  Schuldverschreibungen  aus 

Securities (Gesetz über Schuldverschreibungen 

Gesamtemissionen 

aus 

Gesamtemissionen) 

(Schuldverschreibungsgesetz  –  SchVG) 

in 

(Schuldverschreibungsgesetz  –  SchVG),  as 

seiner 

jeweiligen  gültigen  Fassung 

(das 

amended from time to time (the "SchVG"). 

"SchVG"). 

(c) 

Gerichtliche 

Geltendmachung.  Jeder 

(c) 

Enforcement.  Any  Noteholder  may  in  any 

Anleihegläubiger  kann  in  Rechtsstreitigkeiten 

proceedings  against  the  Issuer  protect  and 

gegen  die  Emittentin  im  eigenen  Namen  seine 

enforce in its own name its rights arising under 

Rechte 

aus 

den 

ihm 

zustehenden 

its  Notes  by 

submitting 

the 

following 

Schuldverschreibungen  geltend  machen  unter 

documents:  (i)  a  certificate  issued  by  its 

Vorlage  der  folgenden  Dokumente:  (i)  einer 

Custodian  (A)  stating  the  full  name  and 

Bescheinigung  seiner  Depotbank,  die  (A)  den 

address  of  the  Noteholder,  (B)  specifying  an 

vollen  Namen  und  die  volle  Anschrift  des 

aggregate  principal  amount  of  Notes  credited 

Anleihegläubigers 

bezeichnet, 

(B) 

den 

on 

the  date  of  such  certificate 

to  such 

Gesamtnennbetrag  der  Schuldverschreibungen 

Noteholder's  securities  account  maintained 

angibt, 

die 

am  Ausstellungstag 

dieser 

with  such  Custodian  and  (C)  confirming  that 

Bescheinigung  dem  bei  dieser  Depotbank 

the Custodian has given a written notice to the 

bestehenden  Depot  dieses  Anleihegläubigers 

Clearing  System  as  well  as  to  the  Principal 

gutgeschrieben sind, und (C) bestätigt, dass die 

Paying  Agent  containing 

the 

information 

Depotbank  dem  Clearingsystem  und  der 

pursuant 

to 

(A)  and 

(B)  and  bearing 

Hauptzahlstelle  eine  schriftliche  Mitteilung 

acknowledgements of the Clearing System and 

zugeleitet hat, die die Angaben gemäß (A) und 

the relevant Clearing System  accountholder as 

(B)  enthält  und  Bestätigungsvermerke  des 

well as (ii) a copy of the Global Note certified 

Clearingsystems 

sowie 

des 

jeweiligen 

by  a  duly  authorised  officer  of  the  Clearing 

72 

Clearingsystem-Kontoinhabers trägt, sowie (ii) 

System or the Principal Paying Agent as being 

einer  von  einem  Vertretungsberechtigten  des 

a true copy. 

Clearingsystems  oder  der  Hauptzahlstelle 

bestätigten Ablichtung der Globalurkunde. 

§ 15  Sprache 

§ 15  Language 

Diese Anleihebedingungen  sind  in  deutscher  Sprache 

These  Terms  and  Conditions  are  written  in  the 

abgefasst. Eine Übersetzung in die englische Sprache 

German  language  and  provided  with  an  English 

ist  beigefügt.  Der  deutsche  Text  ist  bindend  und 

language  translation.  The  German  text  shall  be 

maßgeblich.  Die  Übersetzung 

in  die  englische 

controlling  and  binding.  The  English 

language 

Sprache ist unverbindlich. 

translation is provided for convenience only. 

  

73 

THE GUARANTEE FOR THE NOTES 2027 

Diese  Garantie  ist  in  deutscher  Sprache  abgefasst. 

This  Guarantee  is  written  in  the  German  language 

Eine  Übersetzung 

in  die  englische  Sprache 

ist 

and  provided  with  an  English  language  translation. 

beigefügt.  Der  deutsche  Text 

ist  bindend  und 

The German text shall be controlling and binding. The 

maßgeblich.  Die  Übersetzung 

in  die  englische 

English 

language 

translation 

is  provided 

for 

Sprache ist unverbindlich. 

convenience only. 

Garantie 

Guarantee 

der JAB Holding Company S.à r.l., einer Gesellschaft 

of  JAB  Holding  Company  S.à r.l.,  a  private  limited 

mit  beschränkter  Haftung  (société  à  responsabilité 

liability  company  (société  à  responsabilité  limitée) 

limitée)  nach  dem  Recht  des  Großherzogtums 

incorporated  under  the  laws  of  the  Grand  Duchy  of 

Luxemburg  mit  Sitz  in  4,  Rue  Jean  Monnet,  L-2180 

Luxembourg,  having  its  registered  office  at  4,  Rue 

Luxemburg, Großherzogtum, Luxemburg, eingetragen 

Jean  Monnet,  L-2180  Luxembourg,  Grand  Duchy  of 

im  Handels-  und  Gesellschaftsregister  Luxemburg 

Luxembourg, 

registered  with 

the  Luxembourg 

unter Registrierungsnummer B 164.586 zugunsten der 

Register of Commerce and Companies  under number 

Inhaber  der  durch  die  JAB  Holdings  B.V.,  Piet 

B 164.586 

in 

favour  of 

the  holders  of 

the 

Heinkade  55,  1019  GM  Amsterdam,  Niederlande, 

EUR 500,000,000 2.500 per  cent.  Notes  due  17 April 

begebenen 

EUR 500.000.000 

2,500 % 

2027,  ISIN  DE000A28V301  (the  "Notes")  issued  by 

Schuldverschreibungen  mit  einer  Endfälligkeit  am 

JAB  Holdings  B.V.,  Piet  Heinkade  55,  1019  GM 

17. April 

2027, 

ISIN  DE000A28V301 

(die 

Amsterdam, The Netherlands 

"Schuldverschreibungen")  

1 

1 

1.1  Die  JAB  Holding  Company  S.à r.l.  (die 

1.1 

JAB  Holding  Company 

S.à r.l. 

(the 

"Garantin") übernimmt hiermit gegenüber den 

"Guarantor")  hereby  unconditionally  and 

jeweiligen  Inhabern  (die  "Anleihegläubiger") 

irrevocably  guarantees  (the  "Guarantee")  to 

der  von  der  JAB  Holdings  B.V.  als  Emittentin 

the  holders  (the  "Noteholders")  of  the  Notes 

(die 

"Emittentin") 

begebenen 

Schuld-

issued  by  JAB  Holdings  B.V.,  as  issuer  (the 

verschreibungen, 

die 

unbedingte 

und 

"Issuer")  the  due  payment  in  Euro  of  the 

unwiderrufliche  Garantie  (die  "Garantie")  für 

amounts  corresponding  to  the  principal  of  and 

die ordnungsgemäße Zahlung von Kapital und 

interest  on,  as  well  as  any  other  amounts  due 

Zinsen auf die  Schuldverschreibungen in Euro 

on, the Notes in accordance with the terms and 

sowie 

aller 

sonstigen 

auf 

die 

conditions  of  the  Notes  (the  "Terms  and 

Schuldverschreibungen  fälligen  Beträge  nach 

Conditions").  Payments  under  this  Guarantee 

Maßgabe 

der  Anleihebedingungen 

Schuldverschreibungen 

"Anleihebedingungen"). 

Zahlungen 

der 

(die 

im 

are  subject  to  (without  limitation)  the  Terms 

and  Conditions.  Upon  discharge  of  any 

obligations  of  the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor 

Zusammenhang  mit  dieser  Garantie  erfolgen 

subsisting  under  the  Notes  or  under  this 

ausschließlich 

gemäß 

den 

Guarantee  in  favour  of  any  Noteholder,  the 

Anleihebedingungen.  Bei  Erfüllung  von 

relevant  guaranteed  right  of  such  Noteholder 

Verpflichtungen  der  Emittentin  aus  den 

under the Notes or the Guarantee, respectively, 

Schuldverschreibungen  oder  der  Garantin  aus 

shall cease to exist. 

dieser 

Garantie 

zugunsten 

eines 

Anleihegläubigers  erlischt  das  betreffende 

garantierte  Recht dieses Anleihegläubigers aus 

den  Schuldverschreibungen  bzw.  dessen 

Rechte aus der Garantie. 

74 

1.2 

Sinn  und  Zweck  dieser  Garantie 

ist  es, 

1.2 

The  intent  and  purpose  of  this  Guarantee  is  to 

sicherzustellen,  dass  die  Anleihegläubiger 

ensure  that  the  Noteholders  under  any  and  all 

unter  allen 

tatsächlichen  und 

rechtlichen 

circumstances,  whether  factual  or  legal,  and 

Umständen  und  unabhängig  von  Wirksamkeit 

irrespective of validity or enforceability of the 

und  Durchsetzbarkeit  der  Verpflichtungen  der 

obligations  of  the  Issuer,  or  any  other  reasons 

Emittentin  und  unabhängig  von  sonstigen 

on  the  basis  of  which  the  Issuer  may  fail  to 

Gründen,  aufgrund  derer  die  Emittentin  ihre 

fulfil  its  obligations,  receive  on  the  respective 

Verpflichtungen  nicht  erfüllt,  alle  gemäß  den 

due  date  any  and  all  sums  payable 

in 

Anleihebedingungen 

zahlbaren 

Beträge 

accordance with the Terms and Conditions. 

fristgerecht erhalten. 

1.3  Die  Garantie 

begründet 

unmittelbare, 

1.3 

The 

Guarantee 

constitutes 

direct, 

unbedingte,  nicht  nachrangige  und  nicht 

unconditional,  unsubordinated  and  unsecured 

besicherte  Verbindlichkeiten  der  Garantin,  die 

obligations  of  the  Guarantor  ranking,  in  the 

im  Falle  der  Auflösung,  der  Liquidation  oder 

event  of 

the  dissolution, 

liquidation  or 

der  Insolvenz  der  Garantin  oder  eines  der 

insolvency of the Guarantor or any proceeding 

Abwendung  der 

Insolvenz  der  Garantin 

to  avoid  insolvency  of  the  Guarantor,  pari 

dienenden  Verfahrens  im  gleichen  Rang  mit 

passu  with  all  other  present  and  future 

allen  anderen  gegenwärtigen  und  zukünftigen 

unsubordinated  and  unsecured  obligations  of 

nicht  besicherten  und  nicht  nachrangigen 

the Guarantor, save for such obligations which 

Verbindlichkeiten  der  Garantin  stehen,  mit 

may be preferred by applicable law. 

Ausnahme  von  Verbindlichkeiten,  die  nach 

geltenden Rechtsvorschriften vorrangig sind. 

1.4  Negativerklärung der Garantin 

1.4  Negative Pledge of the Guarantor 

Die Garantin verpflichtet sich hiermit, solange 

The  Guarantor  hereby  undertakes,  so  long  as 

noch  Kapital-  oder  Zinsbeträge  aus  den 

any  amounts  of  interest  or  principal  remain 

Schuldverschreibungen  ausstehen,  jedoch  nur 

outstanding under the Notes, but only up to the 

bis  zu  dem  Zeitpunkt,  an  dem  alle  auf  die 

time all amounts due to Noteholders under the 

Schuldverschreibungen 

gemäß 

den 

Notes  in  accordance  with  the  Terms  and 

Anleihebedingungen 

fälligen  Beträge 

an 

Conditions have been placed at the disposal of 

Kapital  und  Zinsen  dem  Clearingsystem  zur 

the Clearing System, not to create or permit to 

Verfügung 

gestellt  worden 

sind, 

kein 

subsist  any  mortgage,  charge,  pledge  or  other 

Grundpfandrecht, 

Mobiliarpfandrecht, 

form of encumbrance in rem (each a "Security 

Pfandrecht 

oder 

sonstiges 

dingliches 

Interest")  over  the  whole  or  any  part  of  its 

Sicherungsrecht (jedes ein "Sicherungsrecht") 

present  or  future  assets  or  revenues  to  secure 

an 

ihren  gesamten  gegenwärtigen  oder 

any Capital Market Indebtedness, without prior 

zukünftigen Vermögenswerten oder Einkünften 

thereto  or  at 

the  same 

time 

letting 

the 

oder  Teilen  davon  zur  Besicherung  einer 

Noteholders either share equally and ratably in 

anderen  gegenwärtigen  oder 

zukünftigen 

such  Security  Interest  or  benefit  from  an 

Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit 

zu 

gewähren, 

equivalent other Security Interest which will be 

ohne  zuvor  oder  gleichzeitig  entweder  die 

approved  by  an  independent  expert  as  being 

Anleihegläubiger  gleichrangig  und  anteilig  an 

equivalent security. 

einem  solchen  Sicherungsrecht  zu  beteiligen 

oder  zu  Gunsten  der  Anleihegläubiger  ein 

anderes,  gleichwertiges  Sicherungsrecht  zu 

bestellen,  welches  von  einem  unabhängigen 

Sachverständigen  als  gleichwertige  Sicherheit 

beurteilt wird. 

75 

Die  vorgenannte  Verpflichtung  findet  keine 

The  above  undertaking  will  not  apply  to  a 

Anwendung  auf  ein  Sicherungsrecht,  das  (i) 

Security  Interest  which 

is  (i)  mandatory 

nach  dem  anzuwendenden  Recht  zwingend 

according to applicable laws or (ii) required as 

notwendig  oder  (ii)  als  Voraussetzung  einer 

a prerequisite for governmental approvals.  

staatlichen Genehmigung erforderlich ist. 

Ein  nach  der  Garantie 

zu 

leistendes 

Any  Security  Interest  which  is  to  be  provided 

Sicherungsrecht  kann  auch  zu  Gunsten  eines 

pursuant 

to 

the  Guarantee  may  also  be 

für 

die  Anleihegläubiger 

handelnden 

provided  to  a  person  acting  as  trustee  for  the 

Treuhänders bestellt werden. 

Noteholders. 

1.5 

Im  Fall  einer  Ersetzung  der  Emittentin  durch 

1.5 

In the event of a substitution of the Issuer by a 

eine  Tochtergesellschaft  der  Garantin  gemäß 

subsidiary of the Guarantor pursuant to § 10 of 

§ 10  der  Anleihebedingungen  erstreckt  sich 

the Terms and Conditions, this Guarantee shall 

diese  Garantie  auf  sämtliche  von  der  Neuen 

extend to any and all amounts due and payable 

Emittentin  gemäß  den Anleihebedingungen  zu 

by  the  New  Issuer  pursuant  to  the  Terms  and 

zahlende fällige Beträge.  

Conditions.  

2 

Die Garantie stellt einen Vertrag zugunsten der 

2 

This Guarantee constitutes a contract in favour 

jeweiligen  Anleihegläubiger  als  begünstigte 

of  the  respective  Noteholders  as  third  party 

Dritte  gemäß  § 328  Absatz  1  BGB  dar,  die 

beneficiaries  pursuant 

to  § 328(1)  of 

the 

jedem  Anleihegläubiger  das  Recht  gibt, 

German Civil Code (Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch) 

Erfüllung 

der 

hierin 

übernommenen 

giving rise to the right of each such Noteholder 

Verpflichtungen  unmittelbar  von  der  Garantin 

to  require  performance  of  the  obligations 

zu  verlangen  und  diese  Verpflichtungen 

assumed  hereby  directly  from  the  Guarantor 

unmittelbar gegen die Garantin durchzusetzen. 

and to enforce such obligations directly against 

the Guarantor. 

3 

Ansprüche  des  Anleihegläubigers  nach  dieser 

3 

The  period  of  limitation  for  any  claim  by  a 

Garantie verjähren mit Ablauf von zwei Jahren 

Noteholder  under  this  Guarantee  shall  be  two 

nach  dem  jeweiligen  Zinszahlungstag  bzw. 

years  calculated  from  the  relevant  interest 

Rückzahlungstag 

gemäß 

den 

payment date and the relevant redemption date 

Anleihebedingungen. 

pursuant to the Terms and Conditions. 

4 

4 

4.1 

Form  und  Inhalt  der  Garantie  sowie  alle  sich 

4.1 

The form and content of this Guarantee as well 

daraus  ergebenden  Rechte  und  Pflichten 

as  all  the  rights  and  duties  arising  therefrom 

bestimmen sich ausschließlich nach dem Recht 

are  governed  exclusively  by  the  laws  of  the 

der Bundesrepublik Deutschland.  

Federal Republic of Germany.  

4.2  Nicht-ausschließlicher  Gerichtsstand  für  alle 

4.2  Non-exclusive  court  of  venue  for  all  litigation 

Rechtsstreitigkeiten  mit  der  Garantin,  die  sich 

with  the  Guarantor  arising  from  the  legal 

aus  in  dieser  Garantie  ergeben,  ist  Frankfurt 

relations  established  under  this  Guarantee  is 

am Main. 

Frankfurt am Main. 

4.3  Die Begriffe, die in dieser Garantie verwendet 

4.3 

Terms  used  in  this  Guarantee  and  defined  in 

werden  und 

in  den  Anleihebedingungen 

the Terms  and  Conditions  shall  have  the  same 

definiert  sind,  haben  die  gleiche  Bedeutung  in 

meaning in this Guarantee as in the Terms and 

dieser 

Garantie 

wie 

in 

den 

Conditions  unless  they  are  otherwise  defined 

Anleihebedingungen,  soweit  sie 

in  dieser 

in this Guarantee. 

Garantie nicht anderweitig definiert sind. 

76 

5 

Die  in  den  Anleihebedingungen  vorgesehenen 

5 

The  provisions  contained  in  the  Terms  and 

Regelungen 

zu 

Änderungen 

der 

Conditions  allowing  to  amend  the  Terms  and 

Anleihebedingungen  gelten  für  Änderungen 

Conditions apply in relation to amendments of 

der 

Bedingungen 

der  Garantie  mit 

the terms of the Guarantee with the consent by 

Zustimmung 

durch 

Beschluss 

der 

resolution  of  the  Noteholders  and  with  the 

Anleihegläubiger  und  mit  Zustimmung  der 

consent of the Guarantor mutatis mutandis. 

Garantin entsprechend. 

6 

Die  Garantin  und  die  BNP  Paribas  Securities 

6 

The  Guarantor  and  BNP  Paribas  Securities 

Services  S.C.A.  Zweigniederlassung  Frankfurt 

Services  S.C.A.  Zweigniederlassung  Frankfurt 

vereinbaren,  dass  die  BNP  Paribas  Securities 

agree  that  BNP  Paribas  Securities  Services 

Services  S.C.A.  Zweigniederlassung  Frankfurt 

S.C.A.  Zweigniederlassung  Frankfurt  is  not 

nicht  als  Treuhänderin  oder 

in  ähnlicher 

acting as trustee or in a similar capacity for the 

Eigenschaft  für  die  Anleihegläubiger  handelt. 

Noteholders.  BNP  Paribas  Securities  Services 

Die  BNP  Paribas  Securities  Services  S.C.A. 

S.C.A. 

Zweigniederlassung 

Frankfurt 

Zweigniederlassung Frankfurt  verpflichtet sich 

undertakes  to  hold  the  original  copy  of  this 

das  Original  dieser  Garantie  bis  zur  Erfüllung 

Guarantee  in  custody  until  all  obligations 

aller 

Verpflichtungen 

aus 

den 

under  the  Notes  and  the  Guarantee  have  been 

Schuldverschreibungen  und  dieser  Garantie  in 

fulfilled. 

Verwahrung zu halten. 

7 

Jeder  Anleihegläubiger  kann  auf  Grundlage 

7 

On  the  basis  of  a  copy  of  this  Guarantee 

einer  Kopie  dieser  Garantie,  die  von  einer 

certified  as  being  a  true  copy  by  a  duly 

ordnungsgemäß bevollmächtigten Vertreter der 

authorised  officer  of  the  Principal  Paying 

Hauptzahlstelle  beglaubigt  wurde,  in  jedem 

Agent,  each  Noteholder  may  protect  and 

Rechtsstreit  gegen  die  Garantin  und  in  jedem 

enforce  in  his  own  name  his  rights  arising 

Rechtsstreit, in dem er und die Garantin Partei 

under  this  Guarantee  in  any  legal  proceedings 

sind,  seine  Rechte  aus  dieser  Garantie  im 

against 

the  Guarantor  or 

to  which  such 

eigenen  Namen  wahrnehmen  und  durchsetzen 

Noteholder  and  the  Guarantor  are  parties, 

ohne  das  Original  dieser  Garantie  vorlegen  zu 

without 

the  need  for  production  of 

this 

müssen. 

Guarantee in such proceedings. 

8 

Diese  Garantie 

ist 

in  deutscher  Sprache 

8 

This  Guarantee  is  written  in  the  German 

abgefasst.  Eine  Übersetzung  in  die  englische 

language  and  provided  with  an  English 

Sprache  ist  beigefügt.  Der  deutsche  Text  ist 

language translation. The German text shall be 

bindend  und  maßgeblich.  Die  Übersetzung  in 

controlling and binding. The English language 

die englische Sprache ist unverbindlich. 

translation is provided for convenience only. 

Luxemburg, im April 2020 

Luxembourg, in April 2020 

 

 

JAB Holding Company S.à r.l. 

JAB Holding Company S.à r.l. 

 

 

Wir 

nehmen 

die 

obenstehenden  Erklärungen 

We  hereby  accept  all  of  the  above  declarations  in 

zugunsten der Anleihegläubiger ohne Obligo, Haftung 

favour of  the  Noteholders  without recourse,  warranty 

oder Rückgriffsrechte auf uns an. 

or liability on us. 

 

 

BNP 

Paribas 

Securities 

Services 

S.C.A. 

BNP 

Paribas 

Securities 

Services 

S.C.A. 

Zweigniederlassung Frankfurt 

Zweigniederlassung Frankfurt 

77 

THE GUARANTEE FOR THE NOTES 2035 

Diese  Garantie  ist  in  deutscher  Sprache  abgefasst. 

This  Guarantee  is  written  in  the  German  language 

Eine  Übersetzung 

in  die  englische  Sprache 

ist 

and  provided  with  an  English  language  translation. 

beigefügt.  Der  deutsche  Text 

ist  bindend  und 

The German text shall be controlling and binding. The 

maßgeblich.  Die  Übersetzung 

in  die  englische 

English 

language 

translation 

is  provided 

for 

Sprache ist unverbindlich. 

convenience only. 

Garantie 

Guarantee 

der JAB Holding Company S.à r.l., einer Gesellschaft 

of  JAB  Holding  Company  S.à r.l.,  a  private  limited 

mit  beschränkter  Haftung  (société  à  responsabilité 

liability  company  (société  à  responsabilité  limitée) 

limitée)  nach  dem  Recht  des  Großherzogtums 

incorporated  under  the  laws  of  the  Grand  Duchy  of 

Luxemburg  mit  Sitz  in  4,  Rue  Jean  Monnet,  L-2180 

Luxembourg,  having  its  registered  office  at  4,  Rue 

Luxemburg, Großherzogtum, Luxemburg, eingetragen 

Jean  Monnet,  L-2180  Luxembourg,  Grand  Duchy  of 

im  Handels-  und  Gesellschaftsregister  Luxemburg 

Luxembourg, 

registered  with 

the  Luxembourg 

unter Registrierungsnummer B 164.586 zugunsten der 

Register of Commerce and Companies  under number 

Inhaber  der  durch  die  JAB  Holdings  B.V.,  Piet 

B 164.586 

in 

favour  of 

the  holders  of 

the 

Heinkade  55,  1019  GM  Amsterdam,  Niederlande, 

EUR 500,000,000 3.375 per cent. Notes due  17 April 

begebenen 

EUR 500.000.000 

3,375 % 

2035,  ISIN  DE000A28V319  (the  "Notes")  issued  by 

Schuldverschreibungen mit einer Endfälligkeit am 17. 

JAB  Holdings  B.V.,  Piet  Heinkade  55,  1019  GM 

April 

2035, 

ISIN 

DE000A28V319 

(die 

Amsterdam, The Netherlands 

"Schuldverschreibungen")  

1 

1 

1.1  Die  JAB  Holding  Company  S.à r.l.  (die 

1.1 

JAB  Holding  Company 

S.à r.l. 

(the 

"Garantin") übernimmt hiermit gegenüber den 

"Guarantor")  hereby  unconditionally  and 

jeweiligen  Inhabern  (die  "Anleihegläubiger") 

irrevocably  guarantees  (the  "Guarantee")  to 

der  von  der  JAB  Holdings  B.V.  als  Emittentin 

the  holders  (the  "Noteholders")  of  the  Notes 

(die 

"Emittentin") 

begebenen 

Schuld-

issued  by  JAB  Holdings  B.V.,  as  issuer  (the 

verschreibungen, 

die 

unbedingte 

und 

"Issuer")  the  due  payment  in  Euro  of  the 

unwiderrufliche  Garantie  (die  "Garantie")  für 

amounts  corresponding  to  the  principal  of  and 

die ordnungsgemäße Zahlung von Kapital und 

interest  on,  as  well  as  any  other  amounts  due 

Zinsen auf die  Schuldverschreibungen in Euro 

on, the Notes in accordance with the terms and 

sowie 

aller 

sonstigen 

auf 

die 

conditions  of  the  Notes  (the  "Terms  and 

Schuldverschreibungen  fälligen  Beträge  nach 

Conditions").  Payments  under  this  Guarantee 

Maßgabe 

der  Anleihebedingungen 

Schuldverschreibungen 

"Anleihebedingungen"). 

Zahlungen 

der 

(die 

im 

are  subject  to  (without  limitation)  the  Terms 

and  Conditions.  Upon  discharge  of  any 

obligations  of  the  Issuer  or  the  Guarantor 

Zusammenhang  mit  dieser  Garantie  erfolgen 

subsisting  under  the  Notes  or  under  this 

ausschließlich 

gemäß 

den 

Guarantee  in  favour  of  any  Noteholder,  the 

Anleihebedingungen.  Bei  Erfüllung  von 

relevant  guaranteed  right  of  such  Noteholder 

Verpflichtungen  der  Emittentin  aus  den 

under the Notes or the Guarantee, respectively, 

Schuldverschreibungen  oder  der  Garantin  aus 

shall cease to exist. 

dieser 

Garantie 

zugunsten 

eines 

Anleihegläubigers  erlischt  das  betreffende 

garantierte  Recht dieses Anleihegläubigers aus 

den  Schuldverschreibungen  bzw.  dessen 

Rechte aus der Garantie. 

78 

1.2 

Sinn  und  Zweck  dieser  Garantie 

ist  es, 

1.2 

The  intent  and  purpose  of  this  Guarantee  is  to 

sicherzustellen,  dass  die  Anleihegläubiger 

ensure  that  the  Noteholders  under  any  and  all 

unter  allen 

tatsächlichen  und 

rechtlichen 

circumstances,  whether  factual  or  legal,  and 

Umständen  und  unabhängig  von  Wirksamkeit 

irrespective of validity or enforceability of the 

und  Durchsetzbarkeit  der  Verpflichtungen  der 

obligations  of  the  Issuer,  or  any  other  reasons 

Emittentin  und  unabhängig  von  sonstigen 

on  the  basis  of  which  the  Issuer  may  fail  to 

Gründen,  aufgrund  derer  die  Emittentin  ihre 

fulfil  its  obligations,  receive  on  the  respective 

Verpflichtungen  nicht  erfüllt,  alle  gemäß  den 

due  date  any  and  all  sums  payable 

in 

Anleihebedingungen 

zahlbaren 

Beträge 

accordance with the Terms and Conditions. 

fristgerecht erhalten. 

1.3  Die  Garantie 

begründet 

unmittelbare, 

1.3 

The 

Guarantee 

constitutes 

direct, 

unbedingte,  nicht  nachrangige  und  nicht 

unconditional,  unsubordinated  and  unsecured 

besicherte  Verbindlichkeiten  der  Garantin,  die 

obligations  of  the  Guarantor  ranking,  in  the 

im  Falle  der  Auflösung,  der  Liquidation  oder 

event  of 

the  dissolution, 

liquidation  or 

der  Insolvenz  der  Garantin  oder  eines  der 

insolvency of the Guarantor or any proceeding 

Abwendung  der 

Insolvenz  der  Garantin 

to  avoid  insolvency  of  the  Guarantor,  pari 

dienenden  Verfahrens  im  gleichen  Rang  mit 

passu  with  all  other  present  and  future 

allen  anderen  gegenwärtigen  und  zukünftigen 

unsubordinated  and  unsecured  obligations  of 

nicht  besicherten  und  nicht  nachrangigen 

the Guarantor, save for such obligations which 

Verbindlichkeiten  der  Garantin  stehen,  mit 

may be preferred by applicable law. 

Ausnahme  von  Verbindlichkeiten,  die  nach 

geltenden Rechtsvorschriften vorrangig sind. 

1.4  Negativerklärung der Garantin 

1.4  Negative Pledge of the Guarantor 

Die Garantin verpflichtet sich hiermit, solange 

The  Guarantor  hereby  undertakes,  so  long  as 

noch  Kapital-  oder  Zinsbeträge  aus  den 

any  amounts  of  interest  or  principal  remain 

Schuldverschreibungen  ausstehen,  jedoch  nur 

outstanding under the Notes, but only up to the 

bis  zu  dem  Zeitpunkt,  an  dem  alle  auf  die 

time all amounts due to Noteholders under the 

Schuldverschreibungen 

gemäß 

den 

Notes  in  accordance  with  the  Terms  and 

Anleihebedingungen 

fälligen  Beträge 

an 

Conditions have been placed at the disposal of 

Kapital  und  Zinsen  dem  Clearingsystem  zur 

the Clearing System, not to create or permit to 

Verfügung 

gestellt  worden 

sind, 

kein 

subsist  any  mortgage,  charge,  pledge  or  other 

Grundpfandrecht, 

Mobiliarpfandrecht, 

form of encumbrance in rem (each a "Security 

Pfandrecht 

oder 

sonstiges 

dingliches 

Interest")  over  the  whole  or  any  part  of  its 

Sicherungsrecht (jedes ein "Sicherungsrecht") 

present  or  future  assets  or  revenues  to  secure 

an 

ihren  gesamten  gegenwärtigen  oder 

any Capital Market Indebtedness, without prior 

zukünftigen Vermögenswerten oder Einkünften 

thereto  or  at 

the  same 

time 

letting 

the 

oder  Teilen  davon  zur  Besicherung  einer 

Noteholders either share equally and ratably in 

anderen  gegenwärtigen  oder 

zukünftigen 

such  Security  Interest  or  benefit  from  an 

Kapitalmarktverbindlichkeit 

zu 

gewähren, 

equivalent other Security Interest which will be 

ohne  zuvor  oder  gleichzeitig  entweder  die 

approved  by  an  independent  expert  as  being 

Anleihegläubiger  gleichrangig  und  anteilig  an 

equivalent security. 

einem  solchen  Sicherungsrecht  zu  beteiligen 

oder  zu  Gunsten  der  Anleihegläubiger  ein 

anderes,  gleichwertiges  Sicherungsrecht  zu 

bestellen,  welches  von  einem  unabhängigen 

Sachverständigen  als  gleichwertige  Sicherheit 

beurteilt wird. 

79 

Die  vorgenannte  Verpflichtung  findet  keine 

The  above  undertaking  will  not  apply  to  a 

Anwendung  auf  ein  Sicherungsrecht,  das  (i) 

Security  Interest  which 

is  (i)  mandatory 

nach  dem  anzuwendenden  Recht  zwingend 

according to applicable laws or (ii) required as 

notwendig  oder  (ii)  als  Voraussetzung  einer 

a prerequisite for governmental approvals.  

staatlichen Genehmigung erforderlich ist. 

Ein  nach  der  Garantie 

zu 

leistendes 

Any  Security  Interest  which  is  to  be  provided 

Sicherungsrecht  kann  auch  zu  Gunsten  eines 

pursuant 

to 

the  Guarantee  may  also  be 

für 

die  Anleihegläubiger 

handelnden 

provided  to  a  person  acting  as  trustee  for  the 

Treuhänders bestellt werden. 

Noteholders. 

1.5 

Im  Fall  einer  Ersetzung  der  Emittentin  durch 

1.5 

In the event of a substitution of the Issuer by a 

eine  Tochtergesellschaft  der  Garantin  gemäß 

subsidiary of the Guarantor pursuant to § 10 of 

§ 10  der  Anleihebedingungen  erstreckt  sich 

the Terms and Conditions, this Guarantee shall 

diese  Garantie  auf  sämtliche  von  der  Neuen 

extend to any and all amounts due and payable 

Emittentin  gemäß  den Anleihebedingungen  zu 

by  the  New  Issuer  pursuant  to  the  Terms  and 

zahlende fällige Beträge.  

Conditions.  

2 

Die Garantie stellt einen Vertrag zugunsten der 

2 

This Guarantee constitutes a contract in favour 

jeweiligen  Anleihegläubiger  als  begünstigte 

of  the  respective  Noteholders  as  third  party 

Dritte  gemäß  § 328  Absatz  1  BGB  dar,  die 

beneficiaries  pursuant 

to  § 328(1)  of 

the 

jedem  Anleihegläubiger  das  Recht  gibt, 

German Civil Code (Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch) 

Erfüllung 

der 

hierin 

übernommenen 

giving rise to the right of each such Noteholder 

Verpflichtungen  unmittelbar  von  der  Garantin 

to  require  performance  of  the  obligations 

zu  verlangen  und  diese  Verpflichtungen 

assumed  hereby  directly  from  the  Guarantor 

unmittelbar gegen die Garantin durchzusetzen. 

and to enforce such obligations directly against 

the Guarantor. 

3 

Ansprüche  des  Anleihegläubigers  nach  dieser 

3 

The  period  of  limitation  for  any  claim  by  a 

Garantie verjähren mit Ablauf von zwei Jahren 

Noteholder  under  this  Guarantee  shall  be  two 

nach  dem  jeweiligen  Zinszahlungstag  bzw. 

years  calculated  from  the  relevant  interest 

Rückzahlungstag 

gemäß 

den 

payment date and the relevant redemption date 

Anleihebedingungen. 

pursuant to the Terms and Conditions. 

4 

4 

4.1 

Form  und  Inhalt  der  Garantie  sowie  alle  sich 

4.1 

The form and content of this Guarantee as well 

daraus  ergebenden  Rechte  und  Pflichten 

as  all  the  rights  and  duties  arising  therefrom 

bestimmen sich ausschließlich nach dem Recht 

are  governed  exclusively  by  the  laws  of  the 

der Bundesrepublik Deutschland.  

Federal Republic of Germany.  

4.2  Nicht-ausschließlicher  Gerichtsstand  für  alle 

4.2  Non-exclusive  court  of  venue  for  all  litigation 

Rechtsstreitigkeiten  mit  der  Garantin,  die  sich 

with  the  Guarantor  arising  from  the  legal 

aus  in  dieser  Garantie  ergeben,  ist  Frankfurt 

relations  established  under  this  Guarantee  is 

am Main. 

Frankfurt am Main. 

4.3  Die Begriffe, die in dieser Garantie verwendet 

4.3 

Terms  used  in  this  Guarantee  and  defined  in 

werden  und 

in  den  Anleihebedingungen 

the Terms  and  Conditions  shall  have  the  same 

definiert  sind,  haben  die  gleiche  Bedeutung  in 

meaning in this Guarantee as in the Terms and 

dieser 

Garantie 

wie 

in 

den 

Conditions  unless  they  are  otherwise  defined 

Anleihebedingungen,  soweit  sie 

in  dieser 

in this Guarantee. 

Garantie nicht anderweitig definiert sind. 

80 

5 

Die  in  den  Anleihebedingungen  vorgesehenen 

5 

The  provisions  contained  in  the  Terms  and 

Regelungen 

zu 

Änderungen 

der 

Conditions  allowing  to  amend  the  Terms  and 

Anleihebedingungen  gelten  für  Änderungen 

Conditions apply in relation to amendments of 

der 

Bedingungen 

der  Garantie  mit 

the terms of the Guarantee with the consent by 

Zustimmung 

durch 

Beschluss 

der 

resolution  of  the  Noteholders  and  with  the 

Anleihegläubiger  und  mit  Zustimmung  der 

consent of the Guarantor mutatis mutandis. 

Garantin entsprechend. 

6 

Die  Garantin  und  die  BNP  Paribas  Securities 

6 

The  Guarantor  and  BNP  Paribas  Securities 

Services  S.C.A.  Zweigniederlassung  Frankfurt 

Services  S.C.A.  Zweigniederlassung  Frankfurt 

vereinbaren,  dass  die  BNP  Paribas  Securities 

agree  that  BNP  Paribas  Securities  Services 

Services  S.C.A.  Zweigniederlassung  Frankfurt 

S.C.A.  Zweigniederlassung  Frankfurt  is  not 

nicht  als  Treuhänderin  oder 

in  ähnlicher 

acting as trustee or in a similar capacity for the 

Eigenschaft  für  die  Anleihegläubiger  handelt. 

Noteholders.  BNP  Paribas  Securities  Services 

Die  BNP  Paribas  Securities  Services  S.C.A. 

S.C.A. 

Zweigniederlassung 

Frankfurt 

Zweigniederlassung Frankfurt verpflichtet sich 

undertakes  to  hold  the  original  copy  of  this 

das  Original  dieser  Garantie  bis  zur  Erfüllung 

Guarantee  in  custody  until  all  obligations 

aller 

Verpflichtungen 

aus 

den 

under  the  Notes  and  the  Guarantee  have  been 

Schuldverschreibungen  und  dieser  Garantie  in 

fulfilled. 

Verwahrung zu halten. 

7 

Jeder  Anleihegläubiger  kann  auf  Grundlage 

7 

On  the  basis  of  a  copy  of  this  Guarantee 

einer  Kopie  dieser  Garantie,  die  von  einer 

certified  as  being  a  true  copy  by  a  duly 

ordnungsgemäß bevollmächtigten Vertreter der 

authorised  officer  of  the  Principal  Paying 

Hauptzahlstelle  beglaubigt  wurde,  in  jedem 

Agent,  each  Noteholder  may  protect  and 

Rechtsstreit  gegen  die  Garantin  und  in  jedem 

enforce  in  his  own  name  his  rights  arising 

Rechtsstreit, in dem er und die Garantin Partei 

under  this  Guarantee  in  any  legal  proceedings 

sind,  seine  Rechte  aus  dieser  Garantie  im 

against 

the  Guarantor  or 

to  which  such 

eigenen  Namen  wahrnehmen  und  durchsetzen 

Noteholder  and  the  Guarantor  are  parties, 

ohne  das  Original  dieser  Garantie  vorlegen  zu 

without 

the  need  for  production  of 

this 

müssen. 

Guarantee in such proceedings. 

8 

Diese  Garantie 

ist 

in  deutscher  Sprache 

8 

This  Guarantee  is  written  in  the  German 

abgefasst.  Eine  Übersetzung  in  die  englische 

language  and  provided  with  an  English 

Sprache  ist  beigefügt.  Der  deutsche  Text  ist 

language translation. The German text shall be 

bindend  und  maßgeblich.  Die  Übersetzung  in 

controlling and binding. The English language 

die englische Sprache ist unverbindlich. 

translation is provided for convenience only. 

Luxemburg, im April 2020 

Luxembourg, in April 2020 

 

 

JAB Holding Company S.à r.l. 

JAB Holding Company S.à r.l. 

 

 

Wir 

nehmen 

die 

obenstehenden  Erklärungen 

We  hereby  accept  all  of  the  above  declarations  in 

zugunsten der Anleihegläubiger ohne Obligo, Haftung 

favour of  the  Noteholders  without recourse,  warranty 

oder Rückgriffsrechte auf uns an. 

or liability on us. 

 

 

BNP 

Paribas 

Securities 

Services 

S.C.A. 

BNP 

Paribas 

Securities 

Services 

S.C.A. 

Zweigniederlassung Frankfurt 

Zweigniederlassung Frankfurt 

81 

USE OF PROCEEDS  

The net proceeds from the issue and sale of the Notes will amount to approximately EUR 987,620,000.  

The Issuer intends to use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes. 

82 

DESCRIPTION OF THE ISSUER 

Incorporation and Seat 

The  Issuer  is  a  privately  held  company  which  was  incorporated  under  Dutch  law  on  5 October  2005. The 

registered  office  and  the  head  office  are  located  at  Piet  Heinkade 55,  1019  GM  Amsterdam,  The 

Netherlands.  The  corporate  seat  is  in  Amsterdam,  The  Netherlands,  and  the  company  is  registered  in  the 

trade register maintained by the Dutch chamber of commerce under the registration number 34233247. The 

legal entity identifier (LEI) of the Issuer is 529900RRNKUM3INJGF98. 

JAB-Group Structure  

The  JAB-Group  includes,  JAB  Holding  Company  S.à  r.l.  (the  "Guarantor"),  JAB  Investments  S.à  r.l., 

JAB Holdings B.V. (the "Issuer"), JAB Cosmetics B.V. ("JAB Cosmetics"), Labelux Group GmbH in Liqu. 

("Labelux"), JAB Forest B.V. ("JAB Forest") and JAB Holding São Paulo Ltda. ("JAB Brazil"). 

As of the date of this Prospectus, the Issuer’s portfolio includes participations in Jacobs Douwe Egberts B.V. 

and  Peet's  Coffee  Inc.  (through  JDE  Peet’s  B.V,  formerly  New  Oak  B.V.)  and  Keurig  Dr  Pepper,  Inc.  (all 

through Acorn  Holdings  B.V.),  Pret A  Manger  (Europe)  Limited,  Panera  Holdings  Corp.,  Caribou  Coffee 

Company  Inc.  and  Espresso  House  Holding AB  (all  through  Pret  Panera  I  G.P.  and  Pret  Panera  III  G.P.), 

Krispy Kreme Group (through KK G.P.), Coty, Inc. (through Cottage Holdco B.V.), Veterinary Specialists of 

North America LLC and National Veterinary Associates (through Petcare G.P.) and Bally International S.A. 

(through JAB Luxury GmbH).  

JAB Structure as of 31 December 2019 (simplified)  

*  

**  
1) 

2) 

3) 

Participation percentage in ordinary shares unless otherwise indicated. 

Some of the investments are described by their respective commercial names. 

Shareholding calculated on the basis of investment shares and growth shares. 

Shareholding calculated on the basis of ordinary shares and preferred shares. 
New Oak B.V.'s legal name was changed to "JDE Peet’s B.V". in January 2020. 

 

83 

Investments of JAB-Group  

JAB-Group's investment portfolio comprises both direct and indirect investments.  

In  December  2018,  JAB-Group  reorganized  its  former  shareholdings  in  Beech  I  G.P.  and  the  investments 

indirectly  held  through  Beech  I  G.P.  and Acorn  Holdings  B.V.  Please  refer  to  the  section  "Reorganization 

December 2018" below for further information. Set out below is a brief description of each investment. The 

information provided below is derived from public sources or from the Issuer in its capacity as shareholder 

in the related investment and relates to the specific dates referred to and is only valid as of such dates.  

Cottage Holdco B.V. (Coty) 

In March 2019, JAB-Group founded a new  subsidiary,  Cottage Holdco B.V. ("Cottage") and subsequently 

contributed  its  investment  in  Coty  Inc.  ("Coty")  to  the  newly  established  holding  company.  Thereafter, 

Cottage acquired further 150 million Coty shares at a price of USD 11.65 per share in a partial tender offer 

(financed by standalone debt at Cottage).  

As of 31 December 2019, JAB Cosmetics held 100.0% of the total outstanding common shares in Cottage. 

The fair value of the shares held by JAB Cosmetics on 31 December 2019 amounted to EUR 3,041 million.  

As  of  31 December  2019,  Cottage  held  approximately  60.2%,  of  the  total  outstanding  common  shares  in 

Coty.  

Coty  is  a  listed  company.  The  registered  office  and  the  head  office  are  located  at  350  Fifth Avenue,  New 

York City, NY 10118, USA, and the company is registered under the registration number 2472166. Coty is 

listed on the New York Stock Exchange (ISIN US2220702037, CUSIP number 222 070 203).  

The  Coty  share  price  on  31 December  2019  amounted  to  USD 11.25  (EUR 10.01)  (with  EUR/USD 

exchange  rate  of  1.12  on  31 December  2019).  On  31 March  2020  the  share  price  amounted  to  USD 5.16 

(EUR 4.71) (with EUR/USD exchange rate of 1.10 on 31 March 2020). 

Coty Inc. is one of the world’s largest beauty companies  with a rich entrepreneurial heritage and an iconic 

portfolio  of  brands.  Founded  in  1904,  Coty  has  grown  into  a  multi-segment  beauty  company  with  market 

leading positions in both North America and Europe. Today, Coty is the global leader in fragrance, a strong 

number  two  in  professional  salon  hair  color  &  styling,  and  number  three  in  color  cosmetics.  Coty  is 

organized into three divisions, which are also operating and reportable segments: Consumer Beauty, Luxury 

and Professional Beauty. Coty has a diverse portfolio of over 75 brands, some owned and some licensed. 

Coty  Consumer  Beauty  brands  include  such  as  CoverGirl,  Max  Factor,  Rimmel,  Clairol,  Sally  Hansen, 

adidas  and  Nautica.  Coty  Luxury  brands  include  such  as  Alexander  McQueen,  Balenciaga,  Burberry, 

Bottega  Veneta,  Calvin  Klein,  Cavalli,  Chloé,  Davidoff,  Escada,  Gucci,  Hugo  Boss,  Jil  Sander,  Joop!, 

Lacoste,  Lancaster,  Marc  Jacobs,  Miu  Miu,  philosophy,  Stella  McCartney  and  Tiffany  &  Co.  Coty 

Professional  Beauty  brands  include  such  as  Wella  Professionals,  System  Professional,  Nioxin,  Sebastian, 

Londa  Professional,  Sassoon  Professional,  Clairol  Professional,  OPI  and  ghd.  Coty  has  approximately 

19,000 employees globally and its products are sold in over 150 countries. 

For the financial year 2018/2019 which ended on 30 June 2019 ("Coty FY 2018/19"), Coty had net revenues 

of USD 8,649 million (for the financial year ended 30 June 2018 ("Coty FY 2017/18"): USD 9,398 million), 

net  loss  of  USD 3,770  million  (Coty  FY  2017/18:  net  loss  of  USD 128  million)  and  total  assets  of 

USD 17,665 million (Coty FY 2017/18: USD 22,630 million).  

For the six-month period which ended on 31 December 2019 ("Coty H1 2019/20"), Coty had net revenues 

of USD 4,288 million (for the six-month period ended 31 December 2018 ("Coty H1 2018/19"): USD 4,543 

million), net income of USD 40 million (Coty H1 2018/19: net loss of USD 966 million) and total assets of 

USD 17,361 million. 

84 

In  May  2019,  Coty  announced  a  stock  dividend  reinvestment  program  giving  shareholders  the  option  to 

receive  their  full  dividend  in  cash  or  to  receive  their  dividend  in  50%  cash  /  50%  common  stock.  Cottage 

selected to receive 50% of the dividend in shares. 

In  July  2019,  Coty  announced  a  turnaround  plan  which  focuses  on  3  key  objectives:  Rediscover  growth, 

regain operational leadership and build a culture of pride and performance. 

On  21  October  2019,  Coty  announced  that  as  part  of  its  ongoing  strategic  review  of  its  business,  the 

management and the board of directors have determined that moving forward the company will focus more 

intently  on  its  fragrance,  cosmetics  and  skin  care  businesses.  As  a  result,  Coty  is  launching  a  process  to 

explore strategic alternatives for its Professional Beauty business and associated hair brands, as well as the 

company’s  Brazilian  operations,  including  a  divesture.  Coty  expects  that  the  proceeds  from  any  potential 

transaction will be used to pay down debt and return excess cash directly to its shareholders. 

On 18 November 2019, Coty and Kylie Jenner announced that they have entered into a long-term strategic 

partnership  in  order  to  jointly  build  and  further  develop  Kylie’s  existing  beauty  business  into  a  global 

powerhouse brand. Under the terms of the agreement, Coty will acquire a 51% ownership in the partnership 

for USD 600 million. The acquisition closed on 6 January 2020.  

Coty continues to pursue the strategic review of its professional hair and Brazilian businesses. 

In March 2020 JAB-Group has made EUR 1.7 billion cash contributions to Cottage Holdco B.V.  which has 

then fully repaid its stand-alone bank debt.  

In March 2020, JAB-Group received a share premium repayment  from  Cottage Holdco B.V. amounting to 

EUR 25 million.  

Acorn Holdings 

Acorn  Holdings  B.V.  ("Acorn  Holdings")  is  a  private  company  majority-owned  by  JAB  Forest.  The 

registered  office  and  the  head  office  are  located  at  Oosterdoksstraat  80,  1011  DK  Amsterdam,  The 

Netherlands and the company is registered under the registration number 57582041.  

As of 31 December 2019, JAB Forest held 57.0% of the ordinary shares of Acorn Holdings with a fair value 

of EUR 16,843 million and the Issuer held corporate debt securities of Acorn Holdings with a fair value of 

EUR 852 million. 

Acorn Holdings is a holding company. At 31 December 2019 Acorn Holdings held indirect participations in 

Jacobs  Douwe  Egberts  B.V.  and  Peet’s  Coffee  Inc.  (through  New  Oak  B.V.,  now  named  JDE Peet’s  B.V.) 

and Keurig Dr Pepper, Inc. 

For  the  fiscal  year  ended  on  31 December  2019  ("Acorn Holdings  FY  2019"),  the Acorn  Holdings  group 

had consolidated net sales of USD 18,810 million (for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 ("Acorn 

Holdings FY 2018"): USD 14,394 million), net loss of USD 46 million (Acorn Holdings FY 2018: net profit 

USD 360 million) and total assets of USD 73,871 million (Acorn Holdings FY 2018: USD 73,608 million).  

In  March  2020,  the  JAB-Group  received  dividends  on  corporate  debt  securities  of  Acorn  Holdings  in  an 

amount of EUR 8 million.  

In March 2020, Acorn Holdings has redeemed all corporate debt securities that were held by JAB-Group at 

31 December 2019. For the redemption JAB-Group has received Acorn Holdings ordinary shares. 

85 

a) JDE Peet's 

On  17 December  2019,  Jacobs  Douwe  Egberts  B.V.  ("Jacobs  Douwe  Egberts")  announced  that  it  will 

combine with Peet's Coffee Inc. ("Peet's Coffee") and explore an initial public offering ("IPO"), creating a 

global leader in pure play fast-moving consumer goods coffee with leading positions in more than 20 major 

markets.  In  connection  with  the  business  combination,  the  shares  in  Jacobs  Douwe  Egberts  and  Peet’s 

Coffee previously indirectly held by Acorn Holdings were transferred to a new holding company, JDE Peet’s 

B.V. ("JDE Peet’s"). 

JDE  Peet’s  is  a  privately  held  company.  The  registered  office  and  the  head  office  are  located  at 

Oosterdoksstraat  80,  1011  DK  Amsterdam,  The  Netherlands  and  the  company  is  registered  under  the 

registration number 73160377. As of 31 December 2019, Acorn Holdings held 100.0% of the shares in JDE 

Peet’s. Until January 2020, JDE Peet’s was named New Oak B.V. 

In  the  assessment  of  the  company,  JDE  Peet’s  is  the  world's  largest  pure-play  coffee  and  tea  group  by 

revenue, serving approximately 130 billion cups of coffee and tea in 2019 in more than 100 developed and 

emerging countries. Through its more than 50 leading global, regional and local coffee and tea brands, JDE 

Peet’s offers an extensive range of high-quality and innovative coffee and tea products and solutions to serve 

consumer needs across markets, consumer preferences and price points.  

JDE  Peet’s  has  a  long,  rich  tradition  in  the  coffee  and  tea  categories,  developing  its  portfolio  of  over  50 

coffee and tea brands. Its established brand portfolio comprising its "Global Jewels" of Peet's, Jacobs, L'OR, 

Senseo,  Tassimo  and  TiOra  (which  it  defines  as  brands  sold  in  multiple  markets  with  large  revenue  and 

potential  for  expansion  into  further  markets),  its  "Regional  Heroes",  which  include  Douwe  Egberts, 

Stumptown,  Kenco,  Moccona,  Gevalia,  Intelligentsia,  OldTown,  Super  and  Ofçay  (which  it  defines  as 

brands  sold  in  one  or  several  local  markets  that  are  large  in  size  and  strategically  important)  and  "Local 

Brands",  which include Maison du Café in France; Harris  in Australia; and Mighty  Leaf Tea in the United 

States  (which  it  defines  as  brands  sold  in  one  or  more  local  markets  that  are  strategically  important  for  a 

consumer preference, technology or price point not covered by any of its other brands). 

On 20 March 2020 JDE Peet’s noted that the European Commission approved the new governance structure 

between JAB-Group and Mondelez as indirect shareholders of Jacobs Douwe Egberts in anticipation of an 

IPO  of  JDE  Peet’s.  This  decision  satisfies  all  remaining  EU  anti-trust  requirements  for  JAB-Group  with 

respect  to  the  anticipated  IPO.  Depending  on  market  conditions,  the  IPO  is  expected  to  be  completed  in 

2020. 

Jacobs Douwe Egberts  

Jacobs Douwe Egberts is a privately held company. The registered office and the head office are located at 

Oosterdoksstraat  80,  1011  DK  Amsterdam,  The  Netherlands  and  the  company  is  registered  under  the 

registration number 60612568.  

As of 31 December 2019, JDE Peet’s (named New Oak B.V. at the time) indirectly held 73.1% of the shares 

in Jacobs Douwe Egberts. 

Jacobs Douwe Egberts is an international coffee and tea company.  

In  October  2018,  Jacobs  Douwe  Egberts  successfully  completed  negotiations  with  illycaffè  S.p.A.  ("illy"), 

an  Italian  coffee  roasting  company  that  specializes  in  the  production  of  espresso,  for  the  production  and 

distribution of illy branded aluminium capsules and signed a global trademark license agreement. 

86 

Peet's Coffee 

Peet's Coffee Inc. ("Peet's Coffee") is a privately held company. The registered office and the head office are 

located  at  1400  Park  Avenue,  Emeryville,  California  94608,  United  States  of  America.  The  company  is 

incorporated in Virginia, United States of America under the registration number 186822219.  

As  of  31 December  2019,  JDE  Peet’s  (named  New  Oak  B.V.  at  the  time)  indirectly  held  91.9%  in  Peet's 

Coffee. 

Peet's Coffee is a specialty coffee roaster and marketer of fresh roasted whole bean coffee and tea and is one 

of the premier specialty coffee and tea companies in the United States.  

b) Keurig Dr. Pepper, Inc. 

Keurig Dr Pepper, Inc. ("Keurig Dr Pepper") is a listed Delaware company.  The registered office and the 

head  office  are  located  at  53 South  Avenue,  Burlington,  Massachusetts 01803,  USA  and  the  company  is 

registered under the Delaware registration number 44456828100. As of 31 December 2019, Acorn Holdings 

indirectly held 66.9% of the outstanding shares in Keurig Dr Pepper.  

In  March  2020 JAB-Group  has  purchased  shares  in  Keurig  Dr  Pepper  for  an  amount  of  USD 200  million. 

These shares are held directly by JAB-Group, in addition to the shares in Keurig Dr Pepper indirectly held 

through Acorn Holdings. 

The  share  price  of  Keurig  Dr  Pepper  on  31 December  2019  amounted  to  USD 28.95  (EUR 25.77)  (with 

EUR/USD  exchange  rate  of  1.12  on  31 December  2019).  On  31 March  2020  the  share  price  amounted  to 

USD 24.27 (EUR 22.15) (with EUR/USD exchange rate of 1.10 on 31 March 2020). 

Keurig Dr Pepper is a coffee and beverage company in North America. Formed in 2018 with the merger of 

Keurig Green Mountain and Dr Pepper Snapple Group, the company considers itself to be among the market 

leaders  in  soft  drinks,  specialty  coffee  and  tea,  water,  juice  and  juice  drinks  and  mixers,  and  markets, 

according  to  its  own  estimates,  the  #1  single  serve  coffee  brewing  system  in  the  U.S. The  company  has  a 

distribution  system  that  enables  the  portfolio  of  more  than  125  owned,  licensed  and  partner  brands  to  be 

available  nearly  everywhere  people  shop  and  consume  beverages.  With  a  wide  range  of  hot  and  cold 

beverages,  Keurig  Dr  Pepper  key  brands  include  Keurig,  Dr  Pepper,  Green  Mountain  Coffee  Roasters, 

Canada Dry, Snapple, Bai, Mott’s and The Original Donut Shop. The company employs more than 25,500 

employees  and  operates  more  than  130  offices,  manufacturing  plants,  warehouses  and  distribution  centers 

across North America. 

In  September  2018,  Keurig  Dr  Pepper  announced  the  acquisition  of  CORE  Nutrition  LLC  ("CORE 

Nutrition").  The  CORE  Nutrition  portfolio  includes  CORE  Hydration,  a  premium,  nutrient-enhanced 

bottled water, and CORE Organic, organic enhanced fruit hydration, both currently distributed by Keurig Dr 

Pepper. 

In October 2018, Keurig Dr Pepper signed a long-term master distribution agreement to sell, distribute and 

merchandise "evian", a leading premium natural spring water, across the United States. 

In May 2019, Acorn Holdings sold a portion of its shares in Keurig Dr Pepper, increasing the public float of 

the  company.  Acorn  Holdings  has  indicated  that  its  decision  was  motivated  by  a  desire  from  Keurig  Dr 

Pepper  management  to  provide  additional  liquidity  to  the  market.  Proceeds  from  the  share  disposal  have 

been  distributed  by Acorn  Holdings  resulting  in  a  EUR 0.9  billion  return  of  capital  to  JAB-Group  in  June 

2019. 

On 9 March 2020, Keurig Dr Pepper announced the completion of a registered public secondary offering of 

40.0  million  shares  of  the  Keurig  Dr  Pepper's  common  stock,  or  approximately  2.8%  of  the  Keurig  Dr 

Pepper's outstanding common stock, for gross proceeds of approximately USD 1.08 billion. All of the shares 

87 

have  been  sold  by  Maple  Holdings  B.V.  ("Maple")  and  by  Mondelēz  International  Holdings  LLC.  The 

selling stockholders have granted the underwriter a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 6.0 million 

shares of the Keurig Dr Pepper's common stock. 

Pret Panera Holding Company 

JAB-Group is indirectly invested in Pret Panera Holding Company through an investment in Pret Panera I 

G.P. and Pret Panera III G.P. ("Pret Panera III"). Pret Panera Holding Company is the direct shareholder of 

further  interim  holding  companies  and  their  investments  in  Pret  A  Manger  (Europe)  Limited,  Panera 

Holdings Corp., Caribou Coffee Company Inc. and Espresso House Holding AB. 

As  of  31 December  2019,  the  Issuer  held  53.8%  of  the  shares  of  Pret  Panera  I  G.P.  with  a  fair  value  of 

EUR 2,591 million and 16.3% of the shares of Pret Panera III with a fair value of EUR 1,272 million. 

For the fiscal year ended on 31 December 2019 ("Pret Panera III FY 2019"), the Pret Panera III group had 

consolidated  net  sales  of  USD 6,176  million,  net  loss  of  USD 53  million  and  total  assets  of  USD 16,148 

million.  

At 31 December 2019, Pret Panera III subsidiaries operate over 3,000 retail stores and franchise/license over 

2,000 locations across the United States and international markets. 

a) Pret A Manger (Europe) Limited 

Pret A Manger (Europe) Limited ("Pret A Manger") is a privately held company. The registered office and 

the head office are located at  75b Verde, 10 Bressenden Place, London, SW1E 5DH, United Kingdom and 

the company is registered under the 01854213.  

As of 31 December 2019, Pret Panera Holding Company held 86.2% of the shares in Pret A Manger. 

Pret A Manger is a leading company in the ready-to-eat food market  which  maintains a strong presence in 

the  U.K.  and  boasts  a  rapidly  growing  international  footprint  with  a  presence  in  the  United  States, 

Hong Kong/China and France. Pret A Manger’s sandwiches, salads and wraps are freshly made each day in 

shop kitchens  using quality ingredients. Pret A Manger’s offering includes an array of vegetarian or  vegan 

sandwiches and salads, as customer demand for meat free options continues to increase.  

In  May  2019  Pret  A  Manger  announced  that  it  has  reached  an  agreement  to  buy  British  food  and  drink 

retailer,  EAT  Ltd.  In  response  to  growing  consumer  demand  for  more  vegetarian  and  vegan  options,  Pret 

plans to convert as many of EAT’s shops as possible to "Veggie Prets". 

b) Panera Holdings Corp. 

Panera Holdings Corp. ("Panera") is a privately held company. Panera has its registered office in 251 Little 

Falls  Drive,  Wilmington,  DE 19808  and  its  head  office  in  3630  S.  Geyer  Rd.,  Suite 100,  St.  Louis, 

Missouri 63127, United States of America and the company is registered under the registration number EIN 

NO. 82-3828557 and DE SR No. 20176968338.  

As of 31 December 2019, Pret Panera Holding Company held approximately 97.6% of the shares in Panera. 

Panera is a bakery-café concept operating in the fast-casual segment of the restaurant industry.  

c) Caribou Coffee Company Inc. 

Caribou Coffee Company Inc. ("Caribou") is a privately held company. Caribou has its registered office and 

its head office in 3900 Lakebreeze Ave, N Brooklyn Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55429, United States of 

America and the company is registered under the registration number C3577141.  

As  of  31 December  2019,  Pret  Panera  Holding  Company  held  approximately  96.9%  of  the  shares  in 

Caribou. 

88 

Caribou is a leading branded coffee company in the United States. 

d) Espresso House Holding AB 

Espresso House Holding AB ("Espresso House") is a privately held company. The registered office and the 

head office are located at Kungsgatan 37, 111 56 Stockholm, Sweden and the company is registered under 

the registration number 559014-3730.  

Espresso House has issued two types of shares: Ordinary and preference shares. As of  31 December 2019, 

Pret Panera Holding Company held a combined shareholding of ordinary and preference shares in Espresso 

House of 93.5%. 

Espresso  House  runs  a  chain  of  coffee  shops  under  the  brands  Espresso  House  and  Johan  &  Nyström, 

Baresso and Balzac. 

Krispy Kreme 

JAB-Group is indirectly invested in Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Inc. through an investment in KK G.P. 

As  of  31 December  2019,  the  Issuer  held  49.6%  of  the  shares  of  KK  G.P.  with  a  fair  value  of  EUR 888 

million. 

For the fiscal year ended on 31 December 2019 ("KK GP FY 2019"), the KK GP group had consolidated net 

sales of USD 959 million, net loss of USD 38 million and total assets of USD 2.882 million.  

As of 31 December 2019, KK GP’s subsidiaries operated 380 Krispy Kreme stores domestically in 44 states 

and in the District of Columbia, and there were 1,125 shops in 33 other countries around the world. 

As of 31 December 2019, KK GP held approximately 94.9% of the shares in Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Inc. 

("KKD"). 

KKD  is  a  privately  held  company  with  its  registered  office  and  its  head  office  in  370  Knollwood  Street, 

Winston-Salem,  NC 27103,  United  States  of  America.  The  company  is  registered  under  the  registration 

number 56-2169715.  

KKD  is  a  leading  branded  specialty  retailer  and  wholesaler  of  premium  quality  sweet  treats  and 
complementary products, including its signature Original Glazed® doughnut.  

Petcare 

JAB-Group  is  indirectly  invested  in  Veterinary  Specialists  of  North  America  LLC  ("VSNA")  through  an 

investment in Petcare G.P. As of 31 December 2019, the Issuer held 33.1% of the shares of Petcare G.P. with 

a fair value of EUR 222 million.  

For  the  financial  period  from  29  March  2019  (inception)  through  31 December  2019  ("Petcare  G.P.  FY 

2019"), the Petcare group had consolidated net sales of USD 276 million, net loss of USD 30 million and at 

31 December 2019 the group had total assets of USD 1,314 million.  

Since  February  2020,  Petcare  G.P  further  holds  an  investment  in  National  Veterinary  Associates,  Inc 

("NVA") (see below). Following the closing of the NVA transaction, JAB-Group holds approximately 40.8% 

of the shares in Petcare G.P. 

a) VSNA (Compassion First) 

As of 31 December 2019, Petcare GP held approximately 85.3% of the shares in VSNA. 

VSNA is a privately held Delaware company. The registered office and the head office are located 106 Apple 

Street, Suite 102, Tinton Falls, New Jersey 07724, USA and the company is registered under the Delaware 

registration number 5549683. 

89 

VSNA  operates  the  Compassion-First  Pet  Hospitals  ("Compassion  First"),  a  family  of  well-known  and 

respected specialty, emergency and general practice veterinary hospitals, operating a network of 43 hospitals 

and treatment facilities across many states, primarily in urban and suburban areas across the United States. 

According to its own assessment, VSNA is the largest independent pure play speciality pet clinic operator in 

the United States. 

b) National Veterinary Associates 

In  February  2020,  JAB-Group  together  with  JAB  Consumer  Fund  SCA  SICAR  ("JCF")  closed  the 

acquisition  of  NVA,  one  of  the  largest  veterinary  and  pet  care  services  organizations  in  the  world.  JAB-

Group  has  made  a  total  equity  contribution  of  USD 1.6  billion  (incl.  USD 0.2  billion  that  were  already 

provided as loans in 2019 and converted to equity at closing) and has provided a short-term loan to Petcare 

GP Group amounting to USD 0.1 billion. 

Following the closing of the acquisition, Petcare GP holds approximately 95.1% of the shares in NVA as of 

the date of this Prospectus. 

NVA  is  a  privately  held  Delaware  company.  The  head  office  is  located  at  29229  Canwood  St.,  Suite  100, 

Agoura Hills, California 91301, USA and the company is registered under the Delaware registration number 

2592688.  

NVA offers a full range of veterinary services in more than 700 companion animal veterinary hospitals and 

more  than  85  pet  resorts  across  many  states  in  the  United  States,  as  well  as  in  Canada,  Australia,  New 

Zealand and Singapore 

JCF was incorporated in 2013 under the form of a partnership limited by shares (société en commandite par 

actions) as an investment company in risk capital (société d'investissement en capital à risque) with multiple 

compartments.  The  SICAR  qualifies  as  an  alternative  investment  fund  (AIF).  JCF  is  a  strategic  co-

investment equity source and is investing alongside JAB-Group. JCF is legally not part of JAB-Group. 

JAB Luxury 

JAB Luxury GmbH ("JAB Luxury") is a privately held company. The registered office and the head office 

are  located  in  Caslano,  Switzerland.  JAB  Luxury  is  registered  in  the  commercial  register  under  number 

CHE-115.368.113.  

As of 31 December 2019, Labelux was the sole shareholder of JAB Luxury. The fair value of the shares held 

indirectly by the Issuer amounted to EUR 300 million on 31 December 2019.  

In January and February 2020, JAB-Group has provided loans to JAB Luxury Group amounting to EUR 112 

million. 

JAB Luxury is a holding company. Its investment portfolio comprises an investment in Bally International 

S.A. ("Bally"), a Swiss luxury brand selling shoes, bags and accessories.  

Bally  is  a  privately  held  company.  Bally  has  operations  in  16  countries,  employing  over  1,600  people  at 

year-end  2019.  The  registered  office  and  the  head  office  are  located  at  Via  Industria 1,  6987 Caslano, 

Switzerland,  and  the  company  is  registered  under  the  registration  number  CH-514.3.025.213-8.  Bally  has 

issued  two  types  of  shares:  Investments  shares  with  a  preference  on  liquidation  and  growth  shares  with  a 

preference  on  dividends  and  privileged  voting  rights.  As  of  31 December  2019,  JAB  Luxury  held  a 

combined shareholding of investment and growth shares in Bally of 91.6%. 

On  9 February  2018  Shandong  Ruyi  Investment  Holding  and  JAB  Luxury  announced  the  signing  of 

definitive  agreements  for  the  acquisition  of  a  controlling  stake  in  Bally  by  Shandong  Ruyi  Investment 

Holding. As of the date of this Prospectus, closing of the transaction is still pending. 

90 

Reckitt Benckiser 

JAB-Group fully disposed its remaining investment in Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc ("Reckitt Benckiser") 

in the first half of 2019.  

Reorganization December 2018 

In  December  2018,  JAB-Group  reorganized  its  former  shareholdings  in  Beech  I  G.P.  and  the  investments 

indirectly held through Beech I G.P. and Acorn Holdings B.V.: 

Beech I G.P. was renamed to Pret Panera I G.P. and a new interim holding company Pret Panera III G.P. was 

established. 

The indirect investment in Peet's Coffee Group (formerly held through Beech I G.P.) was distributed to JAB-

Group and subsequently contributed to Acorn Holdings B.V.  

The indirect investment in Krispy Kreme Group (formerly held through Beech I G.P.) was  distributed to an 

entity  of  JAB-Group  and  subsequently  contributed  to  the  newly  established  interim  holding  company  KK 

G.P. 

The  investment  in  JAB  Coffee  Holding  B.V.  /  Espresso  House  Group  was  contributed  to  Pret  Panera 

Holding Company Group. 

In  September  2018,  JAB-Group  made  an  investment  in  Pret  A  Manger  Group.  The  investment  was 

contributed to Pret Panera Holding Company Group in December 2018. 

Corporate Purpose  

The purpose of the Issuer is to acquire and dispose of interests in legal entities, companies and enterprises 

and to collaborate with and to manage such legal entities, companies or enterprises. The Issuer may acquire, 

manage, turn to account, encumber and dispose of any property – including intellectual property rights – and 

invest  capital,  and  provide  or  procure  the  supply  of  money  loans  for  acquired  companies  or  any  other 

company in which the Issuer has interest.  

Share Capital  

As  of  the  date  of  this  Prospectus,  the  share  capital  of  the  Issuer  amounted  to  EUR 18,150. All  shares  are 

fully paid and are not listed on any stock exchange. The Issuer's sole shareholder is JAB Investments S.à r.l. 

with  a  registered  office  at  4,  Rue  Jean  Monnet,  L-2180  Luxembourg,  Grand  Duchy  of  Luxembourg  and 

registered  with  the  Luxembourg  Register  of  Commerce  and  Companies  (Registre  de  Commerce  et  des 

Sociétés) under  number  B 165.340. JAB Investments S.à r.l. has been the  sole shareholder since 9 January 

2012 (registration date 17 January 2012). JAB Investments S.à r.l. is a holding company which has no other 

investments and three employees. 

Management Bodies and Authorised Representatives 

The management board and the supervisory board of the Issuer have each two members.  The Issuer further 

has three authorised representatives which are not members of the management board. 

Management Board 

The members of the management board are:  

Name, Date and Place of Birth 
Joachim Creus 

born on 10 June 1976 in Poperinge, Belgium 

Other Mandates 

•  Director of Coty 

91 

Name, Date and Place of Birth 
Fabien Simon 

born on 25 July 1971in Mont Saint Aignan, France. 

Other Mandates 
•  Director of Jacobs Douwe Egberts 

•  Director of Peet’s Coffee & Tea 

•  Director of Krispy Kreme 

•  Director of Keurig Dr. Pepper 

•  Director of Compassion-First 

•  Board member of NVA 

All members of the management board may be reached at the Issuer's registered office at Piet Heinkade 55, 

1019 GM Amsterdam, The Netherlands.  

Supervisory Board 

The members of the supervisory board are:  

Name, Date and Place of Birth 
Peter Harf 

born on 9 May 1946 in Keulen, Federal Republic of 

Germany 

Other Mandates 
•  Chairman of Coty 

•  Chairman of JAB Luxury 

•  Board member of JDE 

Olivier Goudet 

•  Chairman of JDE 

•  Board member of Keurig Dr Pepper 

•  Board member of Peet’s Coffee & Tea 

born on 19 December 1964 in Dijon, France. 

 

•  Chairman of Peet’s Coffee & Tea 

•  Chairman of Pret A Manger 

•  Chairman of Krispy Kreme 

•  Director of Panera Bread 

•  Board member of Coty 

•  Board member of Keurig Dr Pepper 

•  Board member of Caribou Coffee 

Company / Einstein Noah 

•  Board member of Espresso House 

•  Board member of Compassion-First 

•  Board member of NVA 

All members of the supervisory board may be reached at the Issuer's registered office at  Piet Heinkade 55, 

1019 GM Amsterdam, The Netherlands.  

Authorised Representatives 

The authorised representatives are:  

Dietmar Anton Joseph Gütter, born on 7 January 1963 in Speyer, Federal Republic of Germany;  

Andrea  Elisabeth  Oechsler-Steinhauser,  born  on  12 February  1968  in  Ravensburg,  Federal  Republic  of 

Germany; and 

92 

Constantin Thun-Hohenstein, born on 22 December 1974 in Hamburg, Federal Republic of Germany. 

Corporate Governance 

The  Issuer  has  a  dualistic  management  structure,  which  assigns  management  of  the  company  to  the 

management board and supervision of the management board to the supervisory board. 

General Meeting 

The general meeting appoints the managing directors and determines the remuneration and further terms of 

employment  of  each  managing  director  and,  if  applicable,  of  any  interim  managing  directors. The  general 

meeting  may  suspend  and/or remove  the  managing  directors  from  office  at  any  time. The  general  meeting 

may  determine  that  resolutions  of  the  board  of  managing  directors  shall  be  subject  to  its  prior  approval, 

provided  that  the  general  meeting  carefully  describes  such  resolutions  and  notifies  the  board  of  managing 

directors  accordingly.  The  board  of  directors  is  required  to  follow  the  directions  given  by  the  general 

meeting with respect to the general guidelines of the financial, social and economic and personnel policies to 

be pursued.  

Each share carries the right to cast one vote. Unless the law stipulates a larger majority, all resolutions of the 

general meeting are adopted by an absolute majority of the votes cast. If the votes for and against a proposal 

are equally divided the proposal is rejected. 

Statutory Auditors of the Issuer and Financial Statements 

The  Issuer  had  appointed  KPMG  Accountants  N.V.  ("KPMG  Netherlands"),  KPMG  Gebouw,  Laan  van 

Langerhuize 1,  1186  DS  Amstelveen,  The  Netherlands,  as  auditor  for  the  fiscal  years  (Geschäftsjahre) 

ending 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018.  

The audited financial statements of the Issuer as of 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 (the "Issuer 

Annual  Financial  Statements")  have  been  prepared  in  accordance  with  International  Financial  Reporting 

Standards as adopted by the European Union ("IFRS-EU"). 

The financial standards also comply with the requirements of Book 2 Title 9 of the Netherlands Civil Code.  

The Issuer has applied the consolidation exemption by article 408, Part 9, Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil 

Code. As such, the Issuer is exempted from preparing consolidated financial statements. 

Selected Financial Information 

The  following  selected  stand-alone  financial  information  as  of  and  for  the  years  ended  31 December  2019 

and 31 December 2018 is derived from the Issuer Annual Financial Statements.  

Statement of Financial Position 
 

(in EUR/thousand) 
 
Assets 

Non-current assets ................................................................. 

Current assets ........................................................................ 

Assets, total........................................................................... 

 

Equity and liabilities 

Shareholder´s Equity ............................................................. 

Non-current liabilities ............................................................ 

Current liabilities ................................................................... 

Equity and liabilities, total .................................................. 

 
as of  
31 December 2019 
(audited) 

 

 
as of  
31 December 2018 
(audited) 

 

25,766,115 

3,078,557 

28,844,672 

 

21,973,406 

6,800,900 

70,366 

28,844,672 

22,018,581 

2,405,105 

24,423,686 

 

17,587,832 

5,952,105 

883,749 

24,423,686 

93 

 

Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income 
 

(in EUR/thousand) 
 
 

Net gain / (loss) on subsidiaries, other investments and 

short-term financial investments............................................  

Dividend income ...................................................................  

Finance income......................................................................  

Finance expenses ...................................................................  

General and administrative expenses .....................................  

Profit / (loss) before income taxes .......................................  

Income tax expense ...............................................................  

Profit / (loss) for the period .................................................  

Other comprehensive income ................................................  

Total comprehensive income / (loss) attributable to 

equity holder ........................................................................  

 
 
Cash flow statement 

(in EUR/thousand) 
 
 
Net cash from operating activities ......................................... 

Net cash from / (used in) investing activities ......................... 

Net cash from financing activities ......................................... 

Movement in cash and cash equivalents ................................ 

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period .......... 

 

for the year ended 
31 December 2019 
(audited) 

for the year ended 
31 December 2018 
(audited) 

 

 

4,712,061 

104,445 

26,359 

(169,789) 

(7,317) 

4,665,759 

243 

4,666,002 

0 

(752,869) 

146,322 

180,121 

(121,853) 

(1,630) 

(549,909) 

(230) 

(550,139) 

0 

4,666,002 

(550,139) 

 

 

for the year ended 
31 December 2019 
(audited) 
 

for the year ended 
31 December 2018 
(audited) 
 

1,148 

1,111,637 

378,955 

1,491,740 

2,583,130 

172,801 

(1,075,050) 

1,322,236 

419,987 

1,093,420 

Trend Information, Significant Change in the Financial or Trading Position 

Since 31 December 2019, there have been certain changes in the share prices of Coty and Keurig Dr Pepper, 

the indirect listed investments of the Issuer. For further information, please refer to the section  "Investments 

of JAB-Group – Cottage Holdco B.V." and "Investments of JAB-Group – Acorn Holdings B.V.".  

Recent developments related to the Covid-19 pandemic could also have a substantial impact on the valuation 

of  the  Issuers'  unlisted  investments  (please  also  refer  to  the  section:  Risk  Factors  –  Risk  Factors  that  may 

affect the Issuer/Guarantor's ability to fulfil its obligations under the Notes or the Guarantee, respectively  – 

Market Risks – SARS-CoV-2 pandemic". 

In February 2020, JAB Group together with JFC closed the NVA transaction. For further information, please 

refer to the section "Investments of JAB-Group – Petcare" 

In March 2020, JAB-Group has made EUR 1.7 billion cash contributions to Cottage Holdco B.V. For further 

information, please refer to the section "Investments of JAB-Group – Cottage Holdco B.V. (Coty)". 

The  Issuer  decided  to  drawdown  its  revolving  loan  facility  agreement  (please  also  refer  to  the  section 

"Material  Agreements")  in  full  in  mid-March  2020  for  a  one-month  period  as  did  several  European 

94 

companies and all 28 banks participating in the facility agreement had  no issues  funding the request. As  a 

result, at the date of this Prospectus, the revolving loan facility is fully drawn. 

Other than described above, there have been no significant changes with regard to the financial position or 

the trading position of the Issuer since 31 December 2019.  

There has been no material adverse change in the prospects of the Issuer since 31 December 2019. 

Legal and Arbitration Proceedings  

The Issuer is a defendant in a stockholder class action and derivative lawsuit pending in the Delaware Court 

of Chancery under the caption  "In re Coty Inc. Stockholders Litigation, Cons. C.A. No. 2019-0336-AGB". 

The  Issuer  is  named  as  a  defendant  along  with  three  other  JAB  affiliates,  the  Guarantor,  JAB  Cosmetics, 

B.V.,  and  Cottage  Holdco  B.V,  which  the  complaint  alleges  all  have  acted  in  concert  to  control  Coty. The 

plaintiffs, stockholders of Coty, allege that controlling stockholders of Coty breached fiduciary duties to the 

minority stockholders in connection with a partial tender offer for shares of Coty. Plaintiffs contend that the 

tender offer injured the stockholders who tendered because it was purportedly coercive and unfairly priced. 

Plaintiffs  also  contend  that  the  non-tendering  stockholders  were  injured  because  the  JAB  entities  gained 

mathematical control of Coty as a result of the tender offer, thereby depriving the minority stockholders of a 

control premium. The case is still at its early  stages.  The Issuer intends to  move to dismiss the complaint. 

That motion is currently pending. 

The Issuer and the JAB-Group may from time to time be involved in further disputes in the ordinary course 

of its business activities. At the date of this Prospectus, the Issuer and the JAB-Group are not involved in any 

other governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings (including any such proceedings which are pending or 

threatened of which the Issuer is aware) which may have significant effects on the Issuer's financial position 

or  profitability,  nor  have  the  Issuer  or  the  JAB-Group  been  involved  in  any  such  proceedings  during  the 

previous twelve months. 

Material Agreements 

The Issuer is a borrower under a EUR 3.0 billion revolving loan facility agreement dated 26 November 2019 

(the "Syndicated Loan") to which, among others, the Issuer and the certain of the Managers as lenders, are 

party. As of the date of this Prospectus, the Syndicated Loan  is fully drawn. Please also refer to the section 

"Trend Information, Significant Change in the Financial or Trading Position" above. 

For information on the outstanding notes issued by the Issuer  see: "Description of the Issuer - Information 

on other debt issuances". 

Information on Other Debt Issuances 

On  24 November  2014,  the  Issuer  issued  unsecured  fixed  rate  notes  with  a  denomination  of  EUR 100,000 

each  in  an  aggregate  nominal  volume  of  EUR 750  million.  The  notes  have  a  term  of  seven  years  and  a 

coupon of 1.50 per cent. per annum (the "November 2014 Notes"). Payments of all amounts due in respect 

of the November 2014 Notes are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by the Guarantor. In December 

2019 the Issuer repurchased November 2014 Notes at an aggregated principal amount of EUR 211,700,000 

resulting in an outstanding principal amount of November 2014 Notes of EUR 538,300,000. 

On 30 April 2015, the Issuer issued unsecured fixed rate notes with a denomination of EUR 100,000 each in 

an aggregate nominal volume of EUR 600 million. The notes have a term of ten years and a coupon of 1.625 

per  cent.  per  annum  (the  "April 2015  Notes").  Payments  of  all  amounts  due  in  respect  of  the  April 2015 

Notes are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by the Guarantor. 

On  16 September 2015,  the  Issuer  issued  unsecured  fixed  rate  notes  with  a  denomination  of  EUR 100,000 

each  in  an  aggregate  nominal  volume  of  EUR 750  million.  The  notes  have  a  term  of  seven  years  and  a 

coupon of 2.125 per cent. per annum (the "September 2015 Notes"). Payments of all amounts due in respect 

95 

of the September 2015 Notes are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by the Guarantor. In December 

2019 the Issuer repurchased September 2015 Notes at an aggregated principal amount of EUR 226,000,000 

resulting in an outstanding principal amount of September 2015 Notes of EUR 524,000,000. 

On 25 May 2016, the Issuer issued unsecured fixed rate notes with a denomination of EUR 100,000 each in 

an aggregate nominal volume of EUR 750 million. On 15 June 2016, the Issuer issued additional unsecured 

fixed  rate  notes  in  an  aggregate  nominal  volume  of  EUR 150  million.  These  additional  notes  have  been 

consolidated  and  form  a  single  series  with  the  notes  issued  in  May  2016. The  notes  have  a  term  of  seven 

years and a coupon of 1.75 per cent. per annum (the "May/June 2016 Notes"). Payments of all amounts due 

in respect of the May/June 2016 Notes are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by the Guarantor. In 

December  2019  the  Issuer  repurchased  May/June 2016  Notes  at  an  aggregated  principal  amount  of 

EUR 199,100,000  resulting 

in  an  outstanding  principal  amount  of  May/June  2016  Notes  of 

EUR 700,900,000. 

On  15 May 2017,  the  Issuer  issued  two  series  of  unsecured  fixed  rate  notes  with  a  denomination  of 

EUR 100,000  each  (together,  the  "May 2017  Notes").  Each  series  has  an  aggregate  nominal  volume  of 

EUR 750 million. The first series has a term of seven years and a coupon of 1.250 per cent. per annum. The 

second  series  has  a  term  of  eleven  years  and  a  coupon  of  2.000 per  cent.  per  annum.  Payments  of  all 

amounts  due  in  respect  of  the  May 2017  Notes  are  unconditionally  and  irrevocably  guaranteed  by  the 

Guarantor. 

On  25 June 2018,  the  Issuer  issued  two  series  of  unsecured  fixed  rate  notes  with  a  denomination  of 

EUR 100,000  each  (together,  the  "June 2018  Notes").  Each  series  has  an  aggregate  nominal  volume  of 

EUR 750 million. The first series has a term of eight years and a coupon of 1.750 per cent. per annum. The 

second  series  has  a  term  of  eleven  years  and  a  coupon  of  2.500 per  cent.  per  annum.  Payments  of  all 

amounts  due  in  respect  of  the  June 2018  Notes  are  unconditionally  and  irrevocably  guaranteed  by  the 

Guarantor. 

On  13 December 2019,  the  Issuer  issued  two  series  of  unsecured  fixed  rate  notes  with  a  denomination  of 

EUR 100,000 each (together, the "December 2019 Notes"). Each series has an aggregate nominal volume of 

EUR 750 million. The first series has a term of eight years and a coupon of 1.000 per cent. per annum. The 

second  series  has  a  term  of  twenty  years  and  a  coupon  of  2.250 per  cent.  per  annum.  Payments  of  all 

amounts due in respect of the December 2019 Notes are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by the 

Guarantor. 

On 31 January 2020, the Issuer issued unsecured fixed rate notes with a denomination of EUR 100,000 each 

(the  "January 2020  Notes")  in  an  aggregate  nominal  volume  of  EUR 100  million  with  a  term  of  twenty 

years  and  a  coupon  of  2.000 per  cent.  per  annum.  Payments  of  all  amounts  due  in  respect  of  the 

January 2020 Notes are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by the Guarantor. 

96 

DESCRIPTION OF THE GUARANTOR  

Incorporation and Seat  

The  Guarantor  is  a  private  limited  liability  company  (société  à  responsabilité  limitée)  which  was 

incorporated  on  8 November  2011.  The  articles  of  association  have  been  published  in  the  Mémorial  C, 

Recueil  des  Sociétés  et Associations  on  22 December  2011.  The  Guarantor  maintains  its  registered  office 

and head office at 4, Rue Jean Monnet, L-2180 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and is registered 

with the Luxembourg Register of Commerce and Companies (Registre de Commerce et des Sociétés) under 

number B 164.586. 

Corporate Purpose  

The purpose of the Guarantor is the acquisition of participations of domestic and foreign companies as well 

as  management and further selling of such  participations. In particular, the Guarantor is entitled to acquire 

stocks,  shares  and  other  securities,  bonds,  unsecured  obligations,  investment  certificates  and  other  debt 

instruments through selling, purchasing, exchanging or in some other way, and in general all securities and 

financial instruments, which are issued by private or public companies of any kind. The Guarantor is entitled 

to  participate  in  the  establishment,  development,  management  and  control  of  its  investments  in  other 

companies.  Furthermore,  the  Guarantor  can  invest  in  patents  or  any  other  intellectual  property.  The 

Guarantor is also entitled to incur debt, except for any publicly incurred debt. It can issue debt instruments 

such  as  bonds  only  through  private  placements.  The  Guarantor  is  further  entitled  to  lend,  including  and 

without limitation, rights from loan agreements to its branch offices, subsidiaries and other companies.  The 

Guarantor may also give guarantees and pledges, transfer, encumber or otherwise create and grant security 

over  some  or  all  of  its  assets  to  guarantee  its  own  obligations  and  those  of  any  other  company,  and, 

generally, for its own benefit and that of any other company or person. 

Position within JAB-Group Structure 

The Guarantor is the  ultimate parent of the Issuer and has  no  meaningful other investments other than the 

(indirect) shareholding in the Issuer. 

Share Capital and Dividend 

As of the date of this Prospectus, the share capital of the Guarantor amounted to USD 10,702,777. 

In  March  2020  the  Guarantor  redeemed  314,000  special  class  S  shares  and  13,815  class  B  shares 

(redeemable shares) in the Guarantor at a redemption price of approx. USD 0.4bn. Further 241,860 special 

class S shares and 23,087 class B shares in the Guarantor as well as a specific number of shares to be issued 

due to exercise of options will be due for redemption by the Guarantor at an aggregate redemption price of 

approx. USD 0.3 billion before end of September 2020. 

All  shares  are  fully  paid  and  are  not  listed  on  any  stock  exchange. As  of  the  date  of  this  Prospectus,  the 

majority  of  approximately  88%  was  held  by  Agnaten  SE  and  Lucresca  SE  through  its  wholly-owned 

subsidiary Joh. A. Benckiser B.V. (former renamed Donata Holdings B.V.) and the remaining approximately 

12% were held by management and other investors.  

The regular annual dividends paid by the Guarantor are relatively modest, with a targeted value of maximum 

0.7% of the net asset value of the JAB-Group. 

In January 2020, a fixed amount of EUR 150 million was paid (equalling 0.7% of the JAB-Group net asset 

value). 

97 

Long Term Incentive Plan 

The members of the advisory committee and the management team of  the Guarantor and its affiliates hold 

shares  of  the  Guarantor  that  are  redeemable  under  certain  conditions.  The  right  to  put  the  shares  will  be 

suspended if the redemption would lead to a default under the financing agreements of the Issuer. 

The  Guarantor  has  share  option  schemes  for  the  members  of  the  advisory  committee  and  the  management 

team that hold redeemable shares of the Guarantor. Such options may be exercised at any time from the date 

of vesting to the date of their expiry. The exercise of an option will be suspended if the redemption would 

lead  to  a  default  under  the  financing  agreements  of  the  Issuer.  The  options  are  either  settled  in  cash  by 

payment of the net value of the option or by issuance of new shares. 

Management and Authorised Representatives 

The Guarantor has a management board with two members and six authorised representatives.  

Management 

The members of the management board are:  

Name, Date and Place of Birth 
Joachim Creus 

born on 10 June 1976 in Poperinge, Belgium 

Constantin Thun-Hohenstein  

Other Mandates 

•  Director of Coty 

born on 22 December 1974, Hamburg, Germany 

•  None 

All  members  of  the  management  board  may  be  reached  at the  Guarantor's  registered  office  at  4,  Rue  Jean 

Monnet, L-2180 Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. 

Authorised Representatives 

The authorised representatives for daily management are:  

Peter  Harf,  with  his  business  address  at  Rooseveltplatz 4-5, Top 10,  1090 Vienna, Austria,  authorised  with 

power of sole representation the Guarantor opposite third parties including government agencies; 

Andrea  Oechsler-Steinhauser,  with  her  business  address  at  Landteilstr. 31,  68163 Mannheim,  Germany, 

authorised  to  represent  the  Guarantor  together  with  another  authorised  person  or  jointly  with  another 

authorised person and a member of the management board; 

Constantin Thun-Hohenstein, with his business address at Rooseveltplatz 4-5, Top 10, 1090 Vienna, Austria, 

authorised  to  represent  the  Guarantor  together  with  another  authorised  person  or  jointly  with  another 

authorised person and a member of the management board; 

Dietmar  Gütter,  with  his  business  address  at  Landteilstr. 31,  68163 Mannheim,  Germany,  authorised  to 

represent  the  Guarantor  together  with  another  authorised  person  or  jointly  with  another  authorised  person 

and a member of the management board; 

Philippe  Chenu,  with  his  business  address  at  4,  Rue  Jean  Monnet,  L-2180 Luxembourg,  Grand  Duchy  of 

Luxembourg, authorised to represent the Guarantor together with another authorised person or jointly  with 

another authorised person and a member of the management board; and 

Mathias Barth, with his business address Landteilstr. 31, 68163 Mannheim, Germany, authorised to represent 

the  Guarantor  together  with  another  authorised  person  or  jointly  with  another  authorised  person  and  a 

member of the management board; 

98 

Fabien  Simon  with  his  business  address  Piet  Heinkade 55,  1019 GM  Amsterdam,  The  Netherlands, 

authorised  to  represent  the  Guarantor  together  with  another  authorised  person  or  jointly  with  another 

authorised person and a member of the management board; 

Corporate Governance 

The  company  is  managed  by  the  managers  (gérants)  who  are  appointed  by  shareholders'  resolution  and 

together  constitute  the  board  of  management.  The  shareholders  can  decide  to  appoint  managers  of  two 

different  classes,  i.e.  one  or  several  class A  managers  and  one  or  several  class  B  managers.  The  board  of 

managers  has  all  powers  not  expressly  reserved  to  the  shareholders  to  carry  out  and  approve  all  acts  and 

operations consistent with the corporate objective. The board has limited power of delegation to one or more 

agents for specific matters.  

The Guarantor has no supervisory or advisory board. 

General Meeting 

In  the  general  meeting,  the  shareholders  appoint  one  or  more  managers  (gérants)  and  set  the  term  of  their 

office. The managers may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by shareholders' resolution. The 

shareholders may decide to appoint managers of two different classes, i.e. one or several class A managers 

and  one  or  several  class  B  managers.  Resolutions  of  the  shareholders  are  generally  adopted  at  general 

meetings  of  the  shareholders,  unless  the  number  of  shareholders  of  the  Guarantor  does  not  exceed  sixty. 

Then  shareholders'  resolutions  may  be  adopted  in  writing.  Each  share  entitles  the  holder  to  one  vote. 

Resolutions to be adopted at general  meetings shall be passed by shareholders owning  more than  half (i.e. 

50%) of the share capital. If this majority is not reached at the first general meeting, the shareholders shall be 

convened by registered letter to a second general meeting and the resolutions shall be adopted at the second 

general  meeting  by  a  majority  of  the  votes  cast,  irrespective  of  the  proportion  of  the  share  capital 

represented.  The  articles  of  association  of  the  Guarantor  may  only  be  amended  with  the  consent  of  a 

majority (in number) of shareholders owning at least three quarters of the share capital. 

Statutory Auditors of the Guarantor and Financial Statements 

The  Guarantor  has  appointed  KPMG  Luxembourg,  Société  coopérative,  39,  Avenue  John  F.  Kennedy, 

1855 Luxembourg,  Grand  Duchy  of  Luxembourg  ("KPMG  Luxembourg"),  as  auditor  for  the  fiscal  years 

(Geschäftsjahre) ending 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018. 

The  audited  financial  statements  of  the  Guarantor  as  of  31 December  2019  and  31  December  2018  (the 

"Guarantor  Annual  Financial  Statements")  and  the  audited  consolidated  financial  statements  of  the 

Guarantor  as  of  31 December  2019  and  31 December  2018  (the  "Guarantor  Consolidated  Annual 

Financial Statements") have been prepared in accordance with IFRS-EU. 

Selected Financial Information 

The  following  selected  stand-alone  financial  information  as  of  and  for  and  the  fiscal  years  ended 

31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 is derived from the Guarantor Annual Financial Statements. 

99 

Statement of Financial Position 

(in USD/thousand) 
 
Assets 
 
Non-current assets ................................................................. 

Current assets ........................................................................ 

Assets, total  .......................................................................... 

 
Equity and liabilities 
 
Shareholder´s equity .............................................................. 

Non-current liabilities ............................................................ 

Current liabilities ................................................................... 

Equity and liabilities, total ..................................................... 

 

as of 
31 December 2019 
(audited) 
 

as of 
31 December 2018 
(audited) 

24,681,262 

1,684 

24,682,946 

 

20,956,008 

2,328,385 

1,398,553 

24,682,946 

 

20,137,589 

1,523 

20,139,112 

 

17,467,994 

433,950 

2,237,168 

20,139,112 

Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income 

(in USD/thousand) 
 
 
Net gain / (loss) on subsidiaries ............................................  

Finance income .....................................................................  

Finance expenses ..................................................................  

Finance result ........................................................................  

General and administrative expenses ....................................  

Profit / (loss) before income taxes ........................................  

Income tax expense ..............................................................  

Profit / (loss) for the period...................................................  

Total comprehensive income / (loss) attributable to equity 

holder ....................................................................................  

 

Cash flow statement  

(in USD/thousand) 
 
 
Net cash used in operating activities ...................................... 

Net cash from investing activities .......................................... 

Net cash used in financing activities ...................................... 

Movement in cash and cash equivalents ................................ 

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period ................ 

for the year ended 
31 December 2019 
(audited) 
 

for the year ended 
31 December 2018 
(audited) 
 

4,840,870 

421 

(531,328) 

4,309,963 

(500,322) 

3,809,641 

(6) 

3,809,635 

(1,618,946) 

0 

(68,681) 

(1,687,627) 

(274,934) 

(1,962,561) 

(33) 

(1,962,594) 

3,809,635 

(1,962,594) 

for the year ended 
31 December 2019 
(audited) 
 

for the year ended 
31 December 2018 
(audited) 
 

(84,059) 

188,220 

(104,000) 

161 

349 

(39,292) 

113,228 

(73,871) 

65 

188 

Trend Information, Significant Change in the Financial or Trading Position 

For information on  certain transactions and developments  affecting the  Issuer, the  Guarantor and the JAB-

Group  as  of  the  date  of  this  Prospectus  please  refer  to  the  section  "Description  of  the  Issuer  -  Trend 

Information, Significant Change in the Financial or Trading Position" above. 

Other than described above, there have been no significant changes with regard to the financial position or 

the trading position of the Guarantor since 31 December 2019. 

There has been no material adverse change in the prospects of the Guarantor since 31 December 2019.  

100 

Legal and Arbitration Proceedings  

For  information  on  a  legal  proceeding  in  the  United  States,  involving  the  Issuer  and  the  Guarantor,  please 

refer to "Description of the Issuer - Legal and Arbitration Proceedings " above. 

The  Guarantor  and  the  JAB-Group  may  from  time  to  time  be  involved  in  further  disputes  in  the  ordinary 

course of their business activities. At the date of this Prospectus, the Guarantor and the JAB-Group are not 

involved in any other governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings (including any such proceedings which 

are  pending  or  threatened  of  which  the  Guarantor  is  aware)  which  may  have  significant  effects  of  the 

Guarantor financial position or profitability, nor have the Guarantor or the JAB-Group been involved in any 

such proceedings during the previous twelve months.  

Information on Other Debt Issuances 

On  24 November 2014,  the  Issuer  issued  the  November 2014  Notes  guaranteed  by  the  Guarantor,  which 

were partially repurchased in December 2019. 

On 30 April 2015, the Issuer issued the April 2015 Notes guaranteed by the Guarantor. 

On  16 September 2015,  the  Issuer  issued  the  September 2015  Notes  guaranteed  by  the  Guarantor,  which 

were partially repurchased in December 2019. 

On 25 May 2016 and 15 June 2016, the Issuer issued the May/June 2016 Notes guaranteed by the Guarantor, 

which were partially repurchased in December 2019. 

On 15 May 2017, the Issuer issued the May 2017 Notes guaranteed by the Guarantor. 

On 25 June 2018, the Issuer issued the June 2018 Notes guaranteed by the Guarantor. 

On 13 December 2019, the Issuer issued the December 2019 Notes guaranteed by the Guarantor. 

On 31 January 2020, the Issuer issued the January 2020 Notes guaranteed by the Guarantor. 

For  further  information  on  the  note  issuances  see:  "Description  of  the  Issuer  -  Information  on  Other  Debt 

Issuances". 

101 

DESCRIPTION OF THE JAB-GROUP 

General Information 

At 31 December 2019, the JAB-Group is comprised of the  Guarantor, JAB Investments  S.à r.l., the Issuer, 

Labelux,  JAB  Forest,  JAB  Cosmetics  and  JAB  Brazil.  The  Guarantor  holds  100%  of  the  shares  in 

JAB Investments S.à r.l., JAB Investments S.à r.l. holds 100% of the shares in the Issuer, which holds 100% 

of  the  shares  in  Labelux,  JAB  Forest  and  JAB  Cosmetics.  JAB  Brazil  is  held  by  the  Issuer  (99.9%)  and 

JAB Investments S.à r.l. (0.01%). 

Selected Financial Information 

The  following  selected  consolidated  financial  information  as  of  and  for  and  the  fiscal  years  ended 

31 December  2019  and  31 December  2018  is  derived  from  the  Guarantor  Consolidated Annual  Financial 

Statements. 

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  

Consolidated 
as of 31 December 2019 

Consolidated 
as of 31 December 2018 

(in EUR/million) 

 

Assets 

(audited) 

 

Investments in subsidiaries .................................................... 

24,862.8 

Other investments .................................................................. 

Corporate debt securities ....................................................... 

Loans ..................................................................................... 

Other assets ........................................................................... 

Short-term financial investments ........................................... 

Cash and cash equivalents ..................................................... 

Non-current assets held-for-sale ............................................ 

35.6 

852.2 

188.4 

21.6 

0.0 

2,584.5 

300.1 

Total assets ............................................................................  

28,845.2 

 

Equity and liabilities 

 

 

Total equity ...........................................................................  

18,652.8 

Attributable to owners of the parent .......................................  

18,652.8 

 

Borrowings .............................................................................  

Redeemable shares .................................................................  

Other liabilities .......................................................................  

 

 

6,799.5 

2,554.3 

838.6 

 

Total liabilities ......................................................................  

10,192.4 

 

 

Total equity and liabilities....................................................  

28,845.2 

(audited) 

 

19,061.0 

2,095.0 

852.2 

34.0 

13.7 

82.3 

1,094.6 

404.7 

23,637.5 

 

 

15,255.9 

15,255.9 

 

5,952.1 

1,926.9 

502.6 

 

8,381.6 

 

23,637.5 

102 

Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income 

(in EUR/million) 

 

Net gain / (loss) on subsidiaries, other 

investments and short-term financial 

Consolidated 
for the year ended 
31 December 2019 

(audited) 

4,490.5 

Consolidated 
for the year ended 
31 December 2018 

(audited) 

(883.0) 

investments ............................................................................ 

Dividend income ................................................................... 

Finance income ...................................................................... 

Finance expenses ................................................................... 

General and administrative expenses ..................................... 

 

334.0 

26.8 

(641.2) 

(473.6) 

 

Profit/(loss) before income tax .............................................  

3,736.5 

 

Taxes on income .....................................................................  

 

Profit / (loss) for the period ..................................................  

Attributable to owners of the parent .......................................  

 

Currency translation differences .............................................  

 

 

(11.0) 

 

3,725.5 

3,725.5 

 

(43.3) 

 

Other comprehensive loss ....................................................  

(43.3) 

 

Total comprehensive income / (loss) ....................................  

Attributable to owners of the parent .......................................  

 

3,682.2 

3,682.2 

 

Consolidated Statements of changes in equity 

271.6 

178.9 

(173.8) 

(245.6) 

 

(851.9) 

 

(0.3) 

 

(852.2) 

(852.2) 

 

(100.7) 

 

(100.7) 

 

(952.9) 

(952.9) 

Consolidated 
for the year ended 
31 December 2019 

Consolidated 
for the year ended 
31 December 2018 

(audited) 

6.7 

7,654.3 

(149.6) 

7,744.4 

 

15,255.9 

(in EUR/million) 

 

Share capital .......................................................................... 

Share premium ...................................................................... 

Foreign currency translation reserve ...................................... 

(audited) 

6.6 

7,444.2 

(192.9) 

Retained earnings .................................................................. 

11,394.8 

 

 

Total equity .......................................................................... 

18,652.8 

 

103 

Consolidated Cash flow statement 

(in EUR/million) 

 

Cash flows from operating activities 

 

Profit/(loss) before tax ........................................................... 

Finance expenses ................................................................... 

Net (gain) / loss from change in fair value of investments 

in subsidiaries, other investments and short-term financial 

Consolidated 
for the year ended 
31 December 2019 

Consolidated 
for the year ended 
31 December 2018 

(audited) 

(audited) 

 

 

3,736.5 

641.2 

 

 

(851.9) 

173.8 

investments ............................................................................ 

(4,490.5) 

883.0 

Payments on acquisition of investments in subsidiaries, 

other investments and short-term financial investments  ....... 

Proceeds from sale of investments in subsidiaries, other 

investments and short-term financial investments ................. 

Adjustment for share-based payment transactions ................. 

Other adjustment ................................................................... 

Changes in other assets and liabilities from operating 

activities ................................................................................  

(Net increase) / decrease in loans ..................................  

(Net increase) / decrease in other assets ........................  

Net increase / (decrease) in other liabilities ...................  

Income taxes paid and withholding taxes ......................  

 

(368.5) 

1,309.7 

372.0 

4.1 

 

(149.9) 

(6.6) 

4.9 

(7.9) 

 

(3,589.2) 

2,303.8 

194.4 

(3.0) 

 

(68.6) 

1.8 

4.8 

0.0 

 

Net cash from / (used in) operating activities ....................  

1,045.0 

(951.1) 

 

 

Cash flows from financing activities 

 

Contribution owners of the parent .........................................  

Repayment of share premium to owners of the parent ..........  

Changes in borrowings ..........................................................  

Financial expenses paid .........................................................  

Proceeds from issue of redeemable shares.............................  

Capital repayments on redeemable shares .............................  

 

 

 

0.0 

(89.3) 

843.8 

(190.2) 

9.3 

(126.5) 

Payment of lease liability ......................................................  

 

 

 (0.2) 

 

Net cash from / (used in) financing activities .....................  

 

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period ............  

 

Net cash from / (used in) operating activities ........................  

Net cash from / (used in) financing activities ........................  

Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash 

equivalents .............................................................................  

 

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period.......................  

 

446.9 

 

1,094.6 

 

1,045.0 

446.9 

(2.0) 

 

2,584.5 

104 

 

 

 

150.0 

(90.3) 

1,493.2 

(119.1) 

7.8 

(70.3) 

0 

 

1,371.3 

 

674.7 

 

(951.2) 

1,371.3 

(0.3) 

 

1,094.5 

Information on the valuation of JAB-Group's investment portfolio and its net debt 

The  JAB-Group  is  commited  to  a  conservative  loan-to  value  ("LTV")  ratio,  operating  between  15%  and 

20%, with a long-term target of 15%. 

Contributions  for  new  acquisitions  can  lead  to  a  temporary  increase  of  the  LTV  ratio  of  the  JAB-Group, 

however the JAB-Group expects to manage the ratio back to below 20%. 

The following table shows the valuation of  the JAB-Group's investment portfolio, its net debt and its  LTV 

ratio  as  of  31 December  2019  and  as  of  31 December  2018.  The  figures  have  been  extracted  from  the 

Guarantor Consolidated Annual Financial Statements.  

Investments  in  Pound  Sterling  or  Dollar  have  been  converted  into  Euro  at  the  prevailing  exchange  rate  on 

the relevant reference date.  

(in EUR/million) 

Acorn Holdings B.V.  ............................................................ 

Acorn Holdings B.V. Corporate Debt Securities  .................. 

Pret Panera I G.P ................................................................... 

Pret Panera III G.P. ................................................................ 

Pret A Manger Group loan .................................................... 

KK G.P. ................................................................................. 

Petcare G.P. ........................................................................... 

National Veterinary Associates loan ...................................... 

Petcare Intermediate Inc. loan ............................................... 

Cottage Holdco B.V.  ............................................................ 

Coty Inc. ................................................................................ 

Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc.  ............................................... 

JAB Luxury GmbH ............................................................... 

Others (4) ................................................................................ 

Investment portfolio ............................................................ 

 
 

Cash and cash equivalents ..................................................... 

Short-term financial investments 

Borrowings ............................................................................ 

Accrued disagio and fees ....................................................... 

Credit facilities bank consortium 

Net Debt (5) (6) ........................................................................ 

 

LTV ratio 
(in percent) (5) (7) .................................................................... 

Value of the investment held by JAB-Group 

 
as of 31 December 2019  
(1) 
16,843 

as of 31 December 2018  
(2) 
15,047 

852 

2,591 

1,272 

0 

888 

222 

125 

26 

3,041 

0 

0 

300 

41 

26,201 

852 

2,299 

1,055 

18 

655 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1,724 

336 

405 

40 

22,431 

Net Debt 
as of 31 December 2019 
(1) (3) 
2,585 

Net Debt 
as of 31 December 2018 
(2) (3) 
1,095 

0 

(6,863) 

63 

0 

(4,215) 

 

16% 

82 

(6,000) 

48 

0 

(4,775) 

 

21% 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

The  figures  presented  for  31 December  2019  have  been  extracted  from  the  Guarantor  Consolidated  Annual 

Financial Statements and have been commercially rounded. 

The  figures  presented  for  31 December  2018  have  been  extracted  from  the  Guarantor  Consolidated  Annual 

Financial Statements and have been commercially rounded. 

Does not include assets or liabilities from mark to market valuation of derivatives. 

105 

(4) 

(5) 
(6) 

(7) 

 

Including:  31  Dec.  2019:  EUR  5  million  Subsidiaries  and  EUR  36  million  Other  Investments  -  Others; 

31 December 2018: EUR 5 million Subsidiaries and EUR 35 million Other Investments – Others. The amounts 
mentioned here have been commercially rounded. 
Alternative Performance Measure. 

"Net  Debt"  is  calculated  as  the  sum  of  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  short  term  financial  investments,  accrued 
disagio and fess less the sum of borrowings and credit facilities bank consortium. 

The  LTV  ratio  is  calculated  as  JAB-Group’s  Net  Debt  divided  by  the  value  of  JAB-Group’s  investment 

portfolio. 

106 

TAXATION WARNING 

The  tax  legislation  of  the  investor's  member  state  and  of  the  Issuer's  and  Guarantor’s  country  of 

incorporation may have an impact on the income received from the Notes. 

No comment is made, or advice given by the Issuers, the Guarantor or any Joint Lead Manager in respect of 

taxation matters relating to the Notes and each investor is advised to consult its own professional adviser. 

107 

SUBSCRIPTION AND SALE  

General 

Pursuant  to  a  subscription  agreement  dated  on  or  about  15  April  2020  (the  "Subscription  Agreement") 

among  the  Issuer,  the  Guarantor  and  the  Managers,  the  Issuer  has  agreed  to  sell  to  the  Managers,  and  the 

Managers have agreed, subject to certain customary closing conditions, to purchase, the Notes  on 17 April 

2020. The Issuer has furthermore agreed to pay certain commissions to the  Managers and to reimburse the 

Managers  for  certain  expenses  incurred  in  connection  with  the  issue  of  the  Notes.  Commissions  may  be 

payable  by  the  Managers  to  certain  third-party  intermediaries  in  connection  with  the  initial  sale  and 

distribution of the Notes. 

The  Subscription  Agreement  provides  that  the  Managers  under  certain  circumstances  will  be  entitled  to 

terminate the Subscription Agreement. In such event, no Notes will be delivered to investors. Furthermore, 

the Issuer has agreed to indemnify the  Managers against certain liabilities in connection with the offer and 

sale of the Notes. 

The  Managers  or  their  respective  affiliates,  including  parent  companies,  engage,  and  may  in  the  future 

engage,  in  investment  banking,  commercial  banking  (including  the  provision  of  loan  facilities  and,  in 

particular,  the  repayment  of  the  Syndicated  Loan)  and  other  related  transactions  with  the  Issuer  and  the 

Guarantor and their affiliates and may perform services for them, for which the  Managers or their affiliates 

have  received  or  will  receive  customary  fees  and  commissions,  in  each  case  in  the  ordinary  course  of 

business.  

Save for the fees payable to the managers described above, there are no interests of natural and legal persons 

involved in the issue, including conflicting ones, that are material to the issue. 

Selling restrictions  

General 

Each Manager has acknowledged that no action is taken or will be taken by the Issuer or the Guarantor in 

any  jurisdiction  that  would  permit  a  public  offering  of  the  Notes,  or  possession  or  distribution  of  any 

offering material relating to them, in any jurisdiction where action for that purpose is required. 

Each  Manager  has  represented  and  agreed  that  it  will  comply  with  all  applicable  laws  and  regulations  in 

each jurisdiction in which it purchases, offers, sells or delivers Notes or has in its possession or distributes 

any offering material relating to them. 

United States of America and its territories 

The  Notes  and  the  Guarantee  have  not  been  and  will  not  be  registered  under  the  Securities  Act,  and  the 

Notes are subject to U.S. tax law requirements. Subject to certain exceptions, the Notes and the Guarantee 

may not be offered, sold or delivered within the United States or to U.S. persons. Each Manager has agreed 

that it will not offer, sell or deliver any Notes and the Guarantee within the United States or to U.S. persons, 

except as permitted by the Subscription Agreement. 

In addition, until 40 days after the commencement of the offering of the Notes and the Guarantee, an offer or 

sale  of  the  Notes  or  the  Guarantee  within  the  United  States  by  any  of  the  Managers  (whether  or  not 

participating in the offering) may violate the registration requirements of the Securities Act. 

108 

United Kingdom 

Each Joint Lead Manager has represented, warranted and agreed that: 

1. 

it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be 

communicated an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of 

section  21  of  the  FSMA)  received  by  it  in  connection  with  the  issue  or  sale  of  any  Notes  in 

circumstances in which section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to the Issuer, and 

2.  

it  has  complied  and  will  comply  with  all  applicable  provisions  of  the  FSMA  with  respect  to 

anything done by it in relation to such Notes in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom. 

The Netherlands 

The Notes are not being offered and may not be offered in the Netherlands other than to persons or entities 

who or which are qualified investors as defined in Section 1:1 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wet 

op het financieel toezicht). 

Luxembourg 

The Notes are not being offered to the public in or from Luxembourg and each Manager has represented and 

agreed that it will not offer the Notes or cause the offering of the Notes  or contribute to the offering of the 

Notes  to  the  public  in  or  from  Luxembourg,  unless  all  the  relevant  legal  and  regulatory  requirements 

concerning  a  public  offer  in  or  from  Luxembourg  have  been  complied  with.  In  particular,  the  offer  of  the 

Notes been and may not be announced to the public and offering material may not be made available to the 

public. 

109 

GENERAL INFORMATION 

1. 

Documents available: For as long as Notes are outstanding, copies of the following documents will 

be  available  free  of  charge,  during  usual  business  hours  on  any  weekday  (Saturdays  and  public 

holidays  excepted),  at  the  office  of  each  paying  agent.  In  addition,  this  Prospectus  (together  with 

any supplement, if any) will be available in electronic form on the website of the Luxembourg Stock 

Exchange (www.bourse.lu): 

(i) 

(ii) 

the Guarantee; 

the articles of association of the Issuer; 

(iii) 

the articles of association of the Guarantor; 

(iv) 

this Prospectus; 

(v) 

the  agency  agreement  relating  to  the  Notes  between  the  Issuer,  the  Guarantor  and  BNP 

Paribas  Securities  Services  S.C.A.  Zweigniederlassung  Frankfurt  as  Principal  Paying 

Agent; and 

(vi) 

the documents specified in the section "Documents Incorporated by Reference" below. 

2. 

Authorisations: The issue of Notes by the Issuer has been authorised by a resolution of the  Board 

of  Managers  of  the  Issuer  dated  7 April  2020,  a  resolution  by  the  supervisory  board  of  the  Issuer 

dated  7 April  2020  and  a  resolution  of  the  sole  shareholder  of  the  Issuer  dated  7 April  2020. The 

giving  of  the  Guarantee  has  been  authorised  by  a  resolution  of  the  Board  of  Managers  of  the 

Guarantor dated 7 April 2020. 

3. 

Legend on Global Notes: Each Global Note will bear the following legend:  

"Neither this note nor any related guarantee in respect thereof has been or will be registered 

under the U.S.  Securities Act  of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and may not be 

offered  or  sold  in  the  United  States  of  America  (including  the  states  and  the  District  of 

Columbia) or its territories or possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction, unless 

an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available.  

Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the 

United  States  income  tax  laws,  including  the  limitations  provided  in  sections  165(j)  and 

1287(a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended." 

4. 

Clearing  System:  The  Notes  have  been  accepted  for  clearing  and  settlement  through  Clearstream 

Frankfurt. 

The Notes 2027 have the following security codes: 

ISIN: DE000A28V301  

Common Code: 215859282 

German Securities Code (WKN): A28V30  

The Notes 2035 have the following security codes: 

ISIN: DE000A28V319  

Common Code: 215858243 

German Securities Code (WKN): A28V31 

5. 

Expenses of the issue: The total expenses related to the issue of the Notes are expected to amount 

to approximately EUR 6.1 million. 

110 

6. 

Luxembourg  listing  and  admission  to  trading:  Application  has  been  made  to  the  Luxembourg 

Stock Exchange to list the Notes on its Official List and to admit the Notes to trading on the Euro 

MTF operated by the  Luxembourg Stock Exchange,  which is a  multilateral trading  facility  for the 

purposes  of  the  Market  and  the  Financial  Instruments  Directive  2014/65/EU,  and  therefore  a  non-

EU-regulated market. 

7. 

Notices to Noteholders: All notices regarding the Notes will be published (so long as the Notes are 

listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange) on the website of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange on 

www.bourse.lu.  The  Issuer  will  be  entitled  to  deliver  all  notices  concerning  the  Notes  to  the 

Clearing System for communication by the Clearing System to the Noteholders. 

8. 

Yield  to Maturity:  For  the  subscribers,  the  yield  to  maturity  of  the  Notes  2027  is 2.616 per  cent. 

per annum and for the Notes 2035 is 3.461 per cent. per annum. 

Such yields are calculated in accordance with the ICMA (International Capital Markets Association) 

Method. The  ICMA  method  determines  the  effective  interest  rate  on  notes  by  taking  into  account 

accrued interest on a daily basis. 

9. 

Rating of the Guarantor:  

The Guarantor has received a Baa2 rating5 with stable outlook from Moody's and an A- rating6 with 
positive outlook from S&P. 

Moody's and S&P are established in the United Kingdom and the European Union, respectively, and 

registered under Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 

16 September  2009  on  credit  rating  agencies,  as  amended  from  time  to  time,  (the  "CRA 

Regulation")  and  are  included  in  the  list  of  registered  credit  rating  agencies  published  on  the 

website of the European Securities and Markets Authority at  http://www.esma.europa.eu/page/List-

registered-and-certified-CRAs. 

A credit rating assesses the creditworthiness of an entity and informs an investor therefore about the 

probability  of  the  entity  being  able  to  redeem  invested  capital.  It  is  not  a  recommendation  to  buy, 

sell or hold securities and may be revised or withdrawn by the rating agency at any time. 

10.  Websites: For the avoidance of doubt the content of any website referred to in this Prospectus does 

not form part of this Prospectus. 

11. 

Third Party Information 

With  respect  to  any  information  included  herein  sourced  from  a  third  party  the  Issuer  and  the 

Guarantor confirm that any such information has been accurately reproduced and as far as the Issuer 

and  the  Guarantor  are  aware  and  are  able  to  ascertain  from  information  available  to  it  from  such 

third  party,  no  facts  have  been  omitted  the  omission  of  which  would  render  the  reproduced 

information inaccurate or misleading. 

                                                           
5  Moody's defines "Baa1" as follows: Issuers or issues rated Baa represent average creditworthiness relative to other domestic issuers. 

The modifier 1 indicates that the obligation ranks in the higher end of its generic rating category. 

6  S&P  defines  "A-"  as  follows:  An  obligation  rated  'A'  is  somewhat  more  susceptible  to  the  adverse  effects  of  changes  in 
circumstances  and  economic  conditions  than  obligations  in  higher-rated  categories.  However,  the  obligor's  capacity  to  meet  its 
financial commitments on the obligation is still strong. The ratings from 'AA' to 'CCC' may be modified by the addition of a plus (+) 
or (-) sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories. 

111 

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

This  Prospectus  should  be  read  and  construed  in  conjunction  with  the  specified  pages  of  the  following 

documents which have been previously published or are published simultaneously with this Prospectus and 

which have been filed with the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and these specified pages shall be deemed to 

be incorporated in by reference, and form part of, this Prospectus: 

Cross reference list 

 

Information incorporated by reference 

Reference 

JAB Holdings B.V. 

Audited annual financial statements as of 31 December 2019 

Report of the Board of Directors 

Statement of Financial Position 

Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income  

Statement of Changes in Equity  

Cash Flow Statement  

Notes to financial statements  

Other information  

Independent Auditor's report 

 

Audited annual financial statements as of 31 December 2018 

Report of the Board of Directors 

Statement of Financial Position 

Statement of Comprehensive Income  

Statement of Changes in Equity  

Cash Flow Statement  

Notes to financial statements 

Other information 

Independent Auditor's report 

 

 

JAB Holding Company S.à r.l.  

Audited financial statements as of 31 December 2019 

Report of the Réviseur d’Enterprises agréé 

Statement of Financial Position 

Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income  

Statement of Changes in Equity  

Cash Flow Statement  

Notes to the financial statements  

 

Pages 3 - 9 

Page 10 

Page 11 

Page 12 

Page 13 

Pages 14 - 55 

Page 56 

Pages 57 - 63 

 

Pages 3 - 9 

Page 10 

Page 11 

Page 12 

Page 13 

Pages 14 - 54 

Page 55 

Pages 56 - 61 

Pages 1 - 2 

Page 3 

Page 4 

Page 5 

Page 6 

Pages 7 - 36 

 

112 

Audited financial statements as of 31 December 2018 

Report of the Réviseur d’Enterprises agréé 

Statement of Financial Position 

Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income  

Statement of Changes in Equity  

Cash Flow Statement  

Notes to the financial statements  

 

 

JAB Holding Company S.à r.l. - Consolidated 

Audited consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2019 

Independent Auditor's report 

Management Report 

Statement of Financial Position 

Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income  

Statement of Changes in Equity  

Cash Flow Statement  

Notes to the financial statements  

 

Audited consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2018 

Report of the Réviseur d’Enterprises agréé 

Management Report 

Statement of Financial Position 

Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income 

Statement of Changes in Equity 

Cash Flow Statement 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 

 

Pages 1 - 2 

Page 3 

Page 4 

Page 5 

Page 6 

Pages 7 - 36 

Pages 3 - 5 

Page 6 -12 

Page 13 

Page 14 

Page 15 

Page 16 

Pages 17 - 66 

Pages 3 - 5 

Pages 6 - 12 

Page 13 

Page 14 

Page 15 

Page 16 

Pages 17 - 63 

All of these pages shall be deemed to be incorporated in by reference, and to form part of, this Prospectus. 

The  non-incorporated  parts  of  such  documents,  i.e.  the  pages  not  listed  in  the  table  above,  are  either  not 

relevant  for  the  investor  or  covered  elsewhere  in  the  Prospectus.  Copies  of  the  documents  which  are 

incorporated herein by reference will be available free of charge from the specified offices of the Principal 

Paying  Agent  set  out  at  the  end  of  this  Prospectus.  This  Prospectus  and  the  documents  incorporated  by 

reference are also available for viewing at www.bourse.lu. 

113 

 

ISSUER 

JAB Holdings B.V. 

Piet Heinkade 55 

1019 GM Amsterdam 

The Netherlands 

GUARANTOR 

JAB Holding Company S.à r.l. 

4, Rue Jean Monnet 

L-2180 Luxembourg 

Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 

RCS number: 164.586 

PRINCIPAL PAYING AGENT 

BNP Paribas Securities Services S.C.A.  

Zweigniederlassung Frankfurt 

Europa-Allee 12 

60327 Frankfurt am Main 

Germany 

JOINT LEAD MANAGERS 

Banco Santander, S.A.  

Ciudad Grupo Santander 

Avenida de Cantabria s/n  

28660 Boadilla del Monte,  

Madrid, Spain 

BNP Paribas 

10 Harewood Avenue 

London NW1 6AA 

United Kingdom 

 

Citigroup Global Markets Limited 

Deutsche Bank Aktiengesellschaft 

Citigroup Centre 

33 Canada Square 

Canary Wharf 

London E14 5LB 

United Kingdom 

Mainzer Landstraße 11-17 

60329 Frankfurt am Main 

Germany 

Merrill Lynch International 

MUFG Securities (Europe) N.V.  

2 King Edward Street 

EC1A 1HQ London 

United Kingdom 

World Trade Center, Tower H, 11th Floor 

Zuidplein 98  

1077 XV Amsterdam 

The Netherlands 

 

CO-LEAD MANAGERS 

Coöperatieve Rabobank U.A.  

Crédit Industriel et Commercial S.A.  

Croeselaan 18 

3521 CB Utrecht 

The Netherlands 

6, avenue de Provence  

75452 Paris Cedex 09 

France 

ING Bank N.V., Belgian Branch 

Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ)  

Avenue Marnix 

1000 Brussels 

Belgium 

Kungsträdgårdsgatan 8 

SE-106 40 Stockholm 

Sweden 

 

AUDITORS 

To the Issuer 

To the Guarantor 

KPMG Accountants N.V.  

KPMG Luxembourg, Société coopérative 

Laan van Langerhuize 1 

1186 DS Amstelveen 

The Netherlands 

 

39, Avenue John F. Kennedy 

1855 Luxembourg 

Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 

 

LEGAL ADVISERS 

To the Issuer and the Guarantor as to 

To the Issuer and the Guarantor as to 

To the Issuer and the Guarantor as to 

German law 

Linklaters LLP 

Taunusanlage 8 

Dutch law 

Luxembourg law 

Linklaters LLP 

Linklaters LLP 

World Trade Centre Amsterdam 

Avenue John F. Kennedy 35 

60329 Frankfurt am Main  

Tower H, 22nd floor 

1855 Luxembourg 

Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 

Germany 

Zuidplein 180 

1077 XV Amsterdam 

The Netherlands  

 

To the Managers as to German law 

Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP 

Bockenheimer Anlage 44 

60323 Frankfurt am Main 

Germany 

 

A41347368 

